A five-year multi-disciplinary research programme with Engineering, exploring ways to digitally link utilities and services to enable new technical and business opportunities

Today, society generates a huge amount of data, but only a fraction of that information is captured and even less is available in a usable, manageable form. Integration of massive, real-time data across sectors promises to provide benefits at the systems of systems level, opening whole new knowledge-based industries and new markets.

Through connecting citizens, business and government to real-time intelligence and enabling ‘smart’ decision making, the Digital Economy could revolutionise almost every aspect of our everyday lives leading to:

    Better monitoring and controlling of infrastructure to reduce CO2 emissions and waste
    Improved health and well-being for the population
    Improved public service productivity and quality as well as increased citizen satisfaction
    The creation of new business and more jobs

However, fundamental technical, social and commercial questions need to be answered, and new innovation and virtual prototyping processes need to be developed. For this reason, this grand challenge cannot be tackled by any one organisation and needs to be addressed by a university-led consortium.

The Digital Economy Lab acts as a portal for all the research, teaching and engagement which is taking place within this grand challenge at Imperial College London. The Digital Economy Lab aims to link external organisations to relevant expertise at the College and to foster the growing digital community within the College so that they can work together more effectively.

Launched in September 2010, the Lab has been gaining momentum already through a number of engagements with firms, lectures and the launch of the Digital Business pathway as part of Imperial College Business School’s Masters in Management course.  A programme of research is currently ready to be launched, building on the many existing projects which are showcased on this website.

The Digital Economy

Digital technology in the form of the personal computers and the Internet has already transformed many sectors of the economy,  from consumer behaviour to business models.
The widespread use of handheld computers, mobile phones, digital cameras, satellite navigation, embedded sensors and other internet-enabled devices marks the beginning of ubiquitous computing, with people served by many thousands of computers.
The global economy can be characterised as being formed of emerging markets increasing their demand for technology and advanced markets looking to technology to increase efficiency and drive innovation.
New technology combined with fast-growth economies has increased the speed of most business activities, giving rise to new risk and opportunities.

