In order to effectively combat climate change, it is essential that fossil energy sources be replaced with new, sustainable energy technologies and related infrastructures. This poses not just technological and infrastructure challenges but also requires new ways of doing business and new ways to generate and consume energy. To achieve a sustainable global energy infrastructure and technological innovation needs to be combined with business, cultural and institutional innovation.

Working across the Department of Innovation & Entrepreneurship and the Department of Management at Imperial College Business School, the Energy Business Research Lab contributes managerial, policy and theoretical insight into the sustainable creation implementation and adoption of environmentally sustainable energy technologies. We carry out research on business model innovation, energy infrastructure design, the development and adoption of new energy technologies, project delivery and new business creation. The Laboratory\'92s goal is to explore how best to facilitate innovation that supports the economically feasible adaptation of sustainable energy technologies.


Our MisEnergy Futures Labsion

Our mission is to study this phenomenon and help facilitate the design and diffusion of sustainable energy technologies, facilitate knowledge transfer and help create the economic and managerial expertise necessary to make the global energy infrastructure environmentally sustainable.

While the transition itself poses huge technological and economic challenges, it also provides for major business opportunities. Through our research we seek to understand where such opportunities emerge, and what new business models are needed to pursue them.

Our Partners

The EBR Laboratory brings together academics in economics, management and social science to explore all stages of the lifecycle of sustainable energy innovation and adoption- from strategic planning through infrastructure development and deployment to consumers\'92 adoption behaviours. The EBR Laboratory collaborates closely with Imperial\'92s world-leading experts in energy technologies, leading industrial partners and with policy-makers to inform both managerial and policy practice.

To find out more please visit the following websites:

Energy Futures Lab
Grantham Institute for Climate Change
Toyota GB
Southern Housing Group
Control and Power Research Group, Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering
UK Power Networks (formerly EDF Energy Networks) 

Research

Recent developments in renewable energy technologies and new regulations to mitigate climate change seek to push the adoption of new, environmentally sustainable energy technologies. Mounting scientific evidence of the reality and potentially devastating consequences of global climate change underline the urgency of such adoption.

A successful adoption of a sustainable energy infrastructure is not dependent on technological innovation and regulations alone, however, but is likely to require major changes in how societies are organised, how businesses are managed and how people live. Therefore, a successful transition to a sustainable energy infrastructure is possible only if technological innovation is coupled with economic, business model and social innovation.

Our Projects

In the accordion below we outline all of the Energy Business Research Lab\'92s projects by theme:

BUSINESS MODEL INNOVATION
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR NEW ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
CONSUMER ADOPTION AND USE BEHAVIOUR
COMMODITY FUTURES MARKETS

