Interdisciplinary research into healthcare systemsTheoretical and empirical research into health systems innovation.Our research in governance, financing, resource allocation and service delivery informs policy and practice at global, national and local levels.We work closely with Imperial College’s other healthcare research groups and centres, Imperial College Health Partners and the North West London CLAHRC.  Our research into healthcare systems focuses on the following four key areas:HEATH SYSTEM REGULATION, PAYMENT AND INCENTIVISATIONWe are exploring the impact of incentives in healthcare systems on the behaviour of providers and consumers of care. Key research issues include the incentives given by costing systems within organisations which produce healthcare, the impact of payment systems on market development, information and regulation of markets in healthcare, and the effect of choice and competition on health care outcomesResearch projects include:The incentives generated by financial flows within UK NHS organisations (Chapman; Atun)The incentives from the UK system of payment by results on provider quality (Propper)The incentives from the UK system of payment by results on provider costs (Miraldo)The impact of patient choice on competition and provider outcomes (Propper)Health care market management and regulation (Propper)Optimal payment by results tariffs with heterogeneous providers (Miraldo)The impact of pharmaceuticals reimbursement on prices, quality and market structure (Miraldo)Health system performance assessment, with a particular focus on international comparison (Smith)INNOVATION AND ORGANISATIONAL CHANGEOur interest is in the adoption, implementation and sustainability of innovation in healthcare systems - how to plan and deliver services, technologies and infrastructures within a highly complex, rapidly changing environment. This work is largely being carried out within the HaCIRIC research centre, but also includes projects funded by the Department of Health and other bodies.Research projects include:• Modelling the impact of stroke care redesign options (Cox, Bayer, Barlow)• Evaluation of the Department of Health's Whole System Demonstrator programme, focusing organisational factors (Barlow, Hendy, Chrysanthaki)• The whole system impact of targets for emergency care (Barlow, Dattée)• The impact of the private finance initiative on innovation in hospital design (Barlow)• The impact of regulation and competition on pharmaceutical company behaviour (Miraldo)We have a growing interest in the role of major collaborative transformation programmes in changing healthcare, and are investigating this through our contributions to the WSD evaluation (see above) and North West London CLAHRC.ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DETERMINANTS OF HEALTH AND QUALITY OF LIFEHealth policies impact upon individual well being. Increasingly healthcare systems are being judged in terms of their impact on the ‘patient experience and ‘patient reported outcomes'. Our research focuses on the measurement of social well being and its determinants.Research projects include:• Analysis of the relation between health life style and individual preferences (Miraldo)Economic aspects of the social determinants of health (Smith)GLOBAL HEALTHSignificant progress is being made in treating communicable diseases such as HIV, Malaria and Tuberculosis, but the death toll from these conditions is still unacceptably high.In addition, the rapidly increasing number of people with chronic diseases such as diabetes, heart disease and cancer, are putting yet more pressure on health systems around the world.Although new treatments and technologies are being developed to combat these diseases, in many countries they are not available to everyone who needs them because of limited resources.We are working with partners around the globe to find solutions to these problems. Our experts are engaged in finding innovative ways of financing treatment programmes, improving the allocation of resources and assessing the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of new prevention strategies.• PopART - Reducing HIV transmission at a population level• Cancer and non-communicable diseases. Redressing the huge imbalance in cancer care and treatment in developing countries.• Innovative financing in global health. (Rifat Atun)• Tuberculosis – how to address drug resistant TB. (Rifat Atun)• HIV – developing and demonstrating the cost effectiveness of investing in anti-retroviral treatment programmes. (Rifat Atun)Climate Change and Health. How different weather conditions impact on health and how these changes affect health systems. (Rifat Atun, Marisa Miraldo, Laure de Preux)