The Centre is engaged in a programme of research including:

Hedge fund performance 
Predictability in financial asset returns 
Tactical & strategic asset allocation 
Risk management for hedge funds 
Credit quality measurement 
Quantitative trading strategies

The Centre receives funding from various banks and asset management firms. We have an ongoing collaboration with PerTrac, and greatly appreciate the functionality of the tools they provide.

As part of the Business School's Research Celebration on July 3 2012, Robert Kosowski recorded a Podcast on Hedge Fund Investment, which can be listened to here  

Working Paper Series
The Centre for Hedge Fund Research (CHFR) Working Paper Series provides a vehicle for disseminating the recent and ongoing research efforts of researchers based at, or linked to, the CHFR. It aims to reflect the range and diversity of theoretical and empirical work undertaken on hedge funds.   All working papers can be viewed and downloaded from our website, for copies of the papers please visit this page  

The Centre for Hedge Fund Research organizes several events per year, including the flagship Annual Conference in the Analysis of Hedge Fund Strategies, which is now in its eighth year. Further information about all these events can be found here.  


Research Projects and Working Papers

Research in the Centre for Hedge Fund Research is continuing, with projects underway on the analysis of predictability in hedge fund returns; correlation risk exposure and hedge fund performance; intraday patterns in FX rates; dynamic portfolio construction; and the pricing of basket options.

Working Papers

Paper 13
Performance, Risk and Persistence of the CTA industry: Systematic vs. Discretionary CTAs 
Julia Arnold (Imperial College Business School)
This study investigates risk, performance and persistence of systematic and discretionary CTAs. Before analyzing the average performance this study updates previous results in the CTA literature on database biases and finds that results remain largely unaffected by the recent crisis. Controlling for these biases, this study finds that after fees the average CTA is able to add value. These results are strongest however for large systematic CTAs. I model the risk of CTAs by extending the seven- factor model of Fung-Hsieh (2004a) and find that this model is better able to explain the returns of systematic rather than discretionary CTAs. I find three structural breaks in the risk loadings of CTAs: September 1998, March 2003 and July 2007. Using these breaks I show that systematic CTAs were able to deliver significant alpha in every subperiod. I further investigate performance persistence and find evidence of significant performance persistence for the aggregate group of CTAs. However, these findings are heavily contingent on the strategy followed: the persistence of discretionary CTAs is driven by small funds whereas large funds drive the performance persistence of systematic funds. These results have important implications for institutional investors who face capital allocation constraints. They also suggest that contrary to the previous findings, CTA industry does not appear to be heading towards zero alpha.

Paper 12
Survival of Commodity Trading Advisors: Systematic vs. Discretionary CTAs
Julia Arnold (Imperial College Business School)
This study investigates the differences in mortality between systematic and discretionary Commodity Trading Advisors, CTAs, over 1994-2009 period, the longest horizon than any encompassed in the literature. This study shows that liquidation is not the same as failure in the CTA industry. New filters are proposed that allow to identify real failures among funds in the graveyard database. By reexamining the attrition rate, this study finds that the real failure rate is in fact 11.1% in the CTA industry lower than the average yearly attrition rate of 17.3%. Secondly this study proposes a new way to classify CTAs, mainly into systematic and discretionary funds and provides detailed analysis of their survival. Systematic CTAs are found to have higher median survival than discretionary, 12 years vs. 8 years. The effect of various covariates including several downside risk measures is investigated in predicting CTA failure. Controlling for performance, HWM, minimum investment, fund age, leverage and lockup, funds with higher downside risk measures have a higher hazard rate. Compared to the other downside risk measures, volatility of returns is less able to predict failure. Fund flows have significant and positive effect on the probability of survival, funds that receive larger inflows are able to survive longer than funds that do not. Finally larger systematic CTAs have the highest probability of survival.

Paper 11
Momentum Strategies in Futures Markets and Trend-Following Funds
Akindynos-Nikolaos Baltas and Robert Kosowski (both Imperial College Business School)
In this paper we study time-series momentum strategies in futures markets and their relationship to commodity trading advisors (CTAs). First, we construct one of the most comprehensive sets of time-series momentum portfolios by extending existing studies in three dimensions: time-series (1974-2002), cross-section (71 contracts) and frequency domain (monthly, weekly, daily). Our timeseries momentum strategies achieve Sharpe ratios of above 1.20 and provide important diversification benefits due to their counter-cyclical behaviour. We find that monthly, weekly and daily strategies exhibit low cross-correlation, which indicates that they capture distinct return continuation phenomena. Second, we provide evidence that CTAs follow time-series momentum strategies, by showing that time-series momentum strategies have high explanatory power in the time-series of CTA returns. Third, based on this result, we investigate whether there exist capacity constraints in time-series momentum strategies, by running predictive regressions of momentum strategy performance on lagged capital flows into the CTA industry. Consistent with the view that futures markets are relatively liquid, we do not find evidence of capacity constraints and this result is robust to different asset classes. Our results have important implications for hedge fund studies and investors.

Paper 10
Revisiting 'Stylized Facts' about Hedge Funds
Juha Joenväärä (University of Oulu), Robert Kosowski (Imperial College Business School) and Pekka Tolonen (University of Oulu and GSF)

This paper presents new stylized facts about hedge fund performance and data biases based on a novel database aggregation. By highlighting the effect of data base differences on previously documented results we aim to improve the ability of researchers in this literature to compare results across different studies. We document economically important positive riskadjusted performance of the average fund while differences in its magnitude are due to differences in fund size, domicile and data biases, but not differences in fund risk exposures. Measures of misreporting and return smoothing by funds are similar across different data bases. Performance persistence is sensitive to share restrictions, rebalancing frequency, fund size and weighting scheme as well as more pronounced biases in certain databases. Hedge funds with greater managerial incentives, smaller funds and younger funds outperform while hedge funds with strict share restrictions are not associated with higher risk-adjusted returns. Since several stylized facts are sensitive to the choice of the database it is important to use a high quality consolidated database such as the one used in this paper.

Paper 09
Incentives and Endogenous Risk Taking: A Structural View on Hedge Fund Alphas
Andrea Buraschi, Robert Kosowski and Worrawat Sritrakul (all Imperial College Business School)

This paper studies the link between optimal portfolio choice when the manager is subject to non-linear per formance incentives and ex-ante performance attribution measures. We study and compare structural versus reduced form measures of alpha and Sharpe ratios and document the existence of a significant bias in traditional reduced-form measures. The empirical estimation of the structural model allows us to use previously unexploited information about conditional second moments to draw inference about genuine risk-adjusted performance. Intuitively, the structural approach allows us to distinguish the effect of endogenous risk taking and skill from past fund performance, thus providing superior forecasts of hedge fund performance. We extend the work of Koijen (2010) on mutual funds by explicitly modelling hedge fund specific contractual features such as (i) incentive options, (ii) equity investors redemption options and (iii) primer broker contracts that together create option-like payouts and affect a hedge fund’s risk taking. The optimal investment strategy derived from the model reveals that portfolio leverage depends on the distance to high-water mark. The call option creates an incentive to increase leverage while the put option reduces this incentive when distance to high-water mark is above a certain threshold. Out-of-sample, we show that portfolios formed using structural measures outperform portfolios based on reduced-form measures.

Paper 08
Investing in Hedge Funds when the Fund's Characteristics are Exploitable
Juha Joenväärä (University of Oulu), Hannu Kahra (University of Oulu)

In this paper we form hedge fund investment strategies that exploit optimally fund characteristics using the Brandt, Santa-Clara, and Valkanov (2009) approach. We exploit economically well motived fund characteristics based on managerial incentives, share restrictions, and the fund size. The optimal portfolio weight of a speci…c hedge fund can be seen as a ranking between funds. The results suggest that small funds with high managerial incentives and long notice periods obtain the highest rankings. Our fi…ndings suggest that the proposed characteristics-based strategy delivers significant outperformance for a real-time investor. The results are robust across a wide range of performance measures even after controlling for underlying redemption and subscription impediments associated with investment decisions.

Paper 07
Locked Up by a Lockup: Valuing Liquidity as a Real Option
Andrew Ang, Nicolas P.B. Bollen

Hedge funds often impose lockups and notice periods to limit the ability of investors to withdraw capital. We model the investor's decision to withdraw capital as a real option and treat lockups and notice periods as exercise restrictions. Our methodology incorporates time-varying probabilities of hedge fund failure and optimal early exercise. We estimate a two-year lockup with a three-month notice period costs approximately 1% of the initial investment for an investor with CRRA utility and risk aversion of 3. The cost of illiquidity can easily exceed 10% if the hedge fund manager suspends withdrawals.

Paper 06
The Fragile Capital Structure of Hedge Funds and the Limits to Arbitrage 
Xuewen Liu (Imperial College Business School) , Antonio S. Mello (Imperial College Business School)

During a  financial crisis, when markets most need liquidity and arbitrage trading to correct prices, hedge funds reduce their exposures and positions. The paper explains this phenomenon in light of coordination risk. We argue that the fragile nature of the capital structure of hedge funds, combined with low market liquidity, introduces coordination risk to hedge fund's investors. Coordination risk effectively limits hedge funds' arbitrage capabilities. We present a model of hedge funds' optimal asset allocation with coordination risk. We show that hedge fund managers behave conservatively and even give up participating in the market when they factor coordination risk into their investment decisions. The model gives a new explanation to the limits to arbitrage. We also discuss other implications of the model.

Paper 05
Equilibrium Index and Single-Stock Volatility Risk Premia
Andrea Buraschi (Imperial College London), Fabio Trojani (University of Lugano), Andrea Vedolin (University of Lugano)

Writers of index options earn high returns due to a significant and high volatility risk premium, but writers of options in single-stock markets earn lower returns. Using an incomplete information economy, we develop a structural model with multiple assets where agents have heterogeneous beliefs about the growth of firms' fundamentals and a business-cycle indicator and explain the different volatility risk premia of index and single-stock options. The wedge between the index and individual volatility risk premium is mainly driven by a correlation risk premium which emerges endogenously due to the following model features: In a full information economy with independent fundamentals, returns correlate solely due to the correlation of the individual stock with the aggregate endowment ("diversification effect"). In our economy, stock return correlation is endogenously driven by idiosyncratic and systemic (business-cycle) disagreement ("risk-sharing effect"). We show that this effect dominates the diversification effect, moreover it is independent of the number of firms and a firm's share in the aggregate market. In equilibrium, the skewness of the individual stocks and the index differ due to a correlation risk premium. Depending on the share of the firm in the aggregate market, and the size of the disagreement about the business cycle, the skewness of the index can be larger (in absolute values) or smaller than the one of individual stocks. As a consequence, the volatility risk premium of the index is larger or smaller than the individual. In equilibrium, this different exposure to disagreement risk is compensated in the cross-section of options and model-implied trading strategies exploiting differences in disagreement earn substantial excess returns. We test the model predictions in a set of panel regressions, by merging three datasets of f irm-specific information on analysts' earning forecasts, options data on S&P 100 index options,options on all constituents, and stock returns. Sorting stocks based on differences in beliefs, we find that volatility trading strategies exploiting different exposures to disagreement risk in the cross-section of options earn high Sharpe ratios. The results are robust to different standard control variables and transaction costs and are not subsumed by other theories explaining the volatility risk premia.

Paper 04
Differences in Beliefs and Currency Risk Premia
Alessandro Beber (Amsterdam Business School), Francis Breedon (Imperial College London), Andrea Buraschi (Imperial College London)

Thi s paper investigates how heterogeneous beliefs of professional investors impact on the currency
options market. Using a un ique data set with detailed information on the foreign-exchange forecasts
of about 50 market participants over more than ten years, we construct an empirical proxy for dif-
ferences in beliefs. We show that our proxy has a statistically and economically strong effect on the
impl ied volatility of currency options beyond the volatility of current macroeconomic fundamentals.
We document that di¤erences in beliefs impact also on the shape of the implied volatility smile,
on the volatility risk-premia, and on future currency returns. Our evidence demonstrates that a
process related to the uncertainty about fundamentals has important asset pricing implications,
even in the absence of short-selling constraints.

Paper 03
Model Averaging in Risk Management with an Application to Futures Markets
M. Ha shem Pesaran (University of Cambridge, CIMF, GSA Capital and USC), Christoph Schleicher (GSA Capital), Paolo Zaffaroni (Imperial College London and CIMF)

This paper considers the problem of model uncertainty in the case of multi-asset volatility models and discusses the use of model averaging techniques as a way of dealing with the risk of inadvertently using false models in portfolio management. Evaluation of volatility models is then considered and a simple Value-at-Risk (VaR) diagnostic test is proposed for individual as well as `average' models. The asymptotic as well as the exact finite-sample distribution of the test statistic, dealing with the possibility of parameter uncertainty, are established. The model averaging idea and the VaR diagnostic tests are illustrated by an application to portfolios of daily returns on six currencies, four equity indices, four ten year government bonds and four commodities over the period 1991-2007. The empirical evidence supports the use of `thick' model averaging strategies over single models or Bayesian type model averaging procedures.

Paper 02
Dynamic Portfolio Optimisation when Investors Have CRRA Preferences
James Sefton (Imperial College Business School)

Given investors risk-return preferences can be represented using a standard utility function (CRRA), the problem of maximizing the total return to a portfolio with regular rebalancing over a given horizon can be rewritten as an optimal risk-sensitive (or H8) control problem.

F urther if the dynamic evolution of the forecasts to th e equity assets can be written as linear stochastic system – which can encompass a simple representation of trading transaction costs as in Engle, Ferstenberg (2007) and Almgren, Chriss (2000) – then the dynamic optimal portfolio can be written in terms of the solution to a matrix Riccati equation.

This optimal dynamic portfolio can be rewritten as the optimal static mean-variance portfolio plus a weighted sum of Merton (1973) hedging portfolios. This solution procedure is applied to both the forecast horizon problem described above and to the finite-horizon dynamic asset allocation problem di scussed in Ca mpbell and Viceira (2003).

Paper 01
Hedge Funds, Mana gerial Skill, and Macroeconomic Variables
(previously circulated under the title "Investing in Hedge Funds When Returns are Predictable")
Doron Avra mov (R.H. Smith School of Business, University of Maryland), Robert Kosowski (Imperial College Business School), Narayan Y. Naik (London Business School), Melvyn Teo (Singapore Management University)

This paper evaluates hedge fund performance through portfolio strategies that incorporate predictability based on macroeconomic variables. Incorporating predictability substantially improves out-of-sample performance for the entire universe of hedge funds as well as for various investment styles. While we also allow for predictability in fund risk loadings and benchmark returns, the major source of investment profitability is predictability in managerial skills. In particular, long-only strategies that incorporate predictability in managerial skills outperform their Fung and Hsieh (2004) benchmarks by over 17 percent per year. The economic value of predictability obtains for different rebalancing horizons and alternative benchmark models. It is also robust to adjustments for backfill bias, incubation bias, illiquidity, fund termination, and style composition.
