is taking fresh approaches to working with big data sets and creating potential solutions through new tools, methods and techniques.

Imperial Business Analytics with KPMG: An alliance of academics and business leaders devoted to demystifying analytics for UK business leaders.

Bringing data science research closer to the world of business

Keep up with the data revolution by joining our peer-to-peer community for business leaders

Access academic approaches and cross industry innovations to create new value from your data

Work with many of the world’s top academics and industry experts, and find the ideas, skills and confidence to make better, more informed decisions.

Leaders from KPMG and Imperial College come together for the launch of the KPMG Global Data Observatory. Be amongst the first to test out one of the world’s most advanced data visualisation space.

Imperial Business Analytics with KPMG uses leading analytical methods in big data to help solve complex issues and create new value.


Bridging the gap between business and research

Two world-class data science organisations come together to help solve some of the world’s most challenging data problems.

Operations
Organisation Behaviour
Marketing & Strategy
Health Management
Economics
Entrepreneurship
Innovation

focuses on the emergence of new markets and industries by exploring the origins and dynamics of categories and social ontologies — the basic building blocks we use to build organisations, markets, and society.

gives individuals and organisations a deep understanding of the value of intangibles, ideas and knowledge in our economy. Currently, he is using data sources to answer; (a) how much investment organisations make in 'intangible' or 'knowledge' assets, e.g. software, R&D and new business processes; (b) how much investment contributes to economic growth as whole, and; (c) what public implications may arise, particularly in science policy.

s are in network and service design, data analytics, revenue management and pricing. His ground-breaking algorithms have helped to transform airline and transportation organisations’ ability to determine their prices, making him a pricing guru within these industries.  

her expertise in consumer behaviour, big data and social media, her insights inform social media giants and news companies about what drives individuals to websites and what influences consumers to stick or flick websites. As well as a marketing and social media enthusiast, Catarina’s research also lends itself to the pharmaceutical industry.

expert in logistics, operation and production planning, Wolfram’s research has enabled companies to make informed decisions to transform the management of their production of goods - opening new avenues to produce, ship and make changes to their supply chain. A mathematical model and operations enthusiast, Wolfram focuses on projects within the Energy, Defence, Banking and Healthcare sectors.

recent focus is in Pharmaceutical and Health Economics. Bringing her academic edge into business, Marisa's economic consulting and advising engagements range from working with global bodies such as The World Health Organisation to Volvo and ThermoFisher.

At KPMG our clients are tackling increasing volume, velocity and complexity of big-data. Finding better ways of analysing data is the key to unlocking its profitability. I am excited that this alliance will unleash new waves of productivity, growth and innovation


Get a better look at your opportunities

To solve big problems, you need to think differently. The KPMG Data Observatory lets you see your data from virtually every angle, unlocking new perspectives and inspiring new strategies. With an immense data processing capacity, it the largest facility of its kind in Europe - and possibly the world.

 

Centred around our 310 degree visualisation space, the Data Observatory includes data science studios and conference facilities that allows you to sit down with academics and business advisors to co-create strategies that help solve your greatest challenges. Located in the new Data Science Institute at Imperial College London, the KPMG Data Observatory provides you with a connected, innovative  and immersive data environment.

Immerse yourself

Get a high-definition view of real-time data in an enveloping circular wall of 64 monitors with 310 degrees of surround vision and a total resolution of more than 130,000,000 pixels.


Spark new insights and value

It’s not how much data you have that matters, it’s how you use it. The Data Spark process helps business leaders take a fresh look at their existing data to unlock new and unexpected value.

Leveraging some of the world’s best academics, industry experts and technologies, the Data Spark is an end-to-end process that helps you get more from your data.

 

From asking the right questions in order to spot valuable patterns and insights through to creating, assessing and testing specific hypothesis.  

Take bold action and improve your understanding of the inner workings of your business with the Data Spark.


A community dedicated to data

Most organisations are struggling to make sense of – and get value from – their investments into data and analytics. We recognise that progress comes from experience. That is why we created the Data Club. Operated as a peer-to-peer community, members of the Data Club share ideas, learn from others’ experience and gain specialist skills and knowledge. Guided and supported by experts and academics from both KPMG and Imperial, the Data Club cuts away the hype around data to help business leaders focus on what is important.

 
Ambition

Membership is open to those already on the 'data' journey or who wish to understand more about data as a transformational asset in creating value.


We invite executives from large global organisations with a strategic decision-making role to join the Data Club. Whether you are discovering growth opportunities or investigating emerging threats to your business.


We are working with businesses operating across all industries and we are targeting FTSE 250 and Fortune 500 organisations.

We seek to work with organisations all over the world to share and learn from insights and experiences in different markets and cultures.

Among executives, there is a real need for clearer understanding of how to hire, build, direct and realise economic value from data. In response, KPMG and Imperial Business School have launched a major new alliance in business analytics to empower executives to solve complex business problems with data.


Confidence

Make better decisions and act decisively knowing you have access to the latest ideas, approaches and technologies.
Connections

Meet and build valuable relationships with many of the world’s top data scientists, technology leaders and business executives.
Risk

Find out where others went wrong to understand how you can mitigate the risks of pursuing a data-driven strategy and avoid costly mistakes.
Foresight

See what others don’t see and learn how to identify what’s important so that you can anticipate the future.
Learning

Learn valuable skills and capabilities from leading academic minds and develop new skills in leadership, implementation and cultural change.

 
Technology

Understand what technologies to invest in, how they create value and how to make them work.

The digital revolution now underway is already transforming society, but how will the world be different? How can we use data and analytics to make a better world? What do we need to watch out for?


The data challenge. Fundamental questions

Not long ago, people saw the Internet as changing how we communicate, learn, and shop. Now, we realise the real revolution is in the data spun off by our online travels. Thanks to our digital footprints and machine-to-machine communications, we have an ultra-HD view of patterned human interaction.

 

For researchers, this is giving us a view of economy and society far more detailed than any previously imagined. This holds the promise of fundamental breakthroughs in our ability to explain and anticipate opportunity and risk across all the major topics in studies of markets, organisations, and social interactions.


Operations

New data and analytics are giving us new ways to understand the dynamics of complex systems and optimise them for more efficient operations and more effective delivery of all kinds of goods and services. Combined with advances in maths, computing, and statistics, our research in operations is creating a new toolkit for managing the businesses of the future.

Organisational Behaviour

As we explore the cognition, decision-making and behaviour of individuals, teams, and organisations, data is enabling us to say more about individual, team and organisation performance. New findings and methods are quickly helping to transform applications in the fast-growing field of people or workforce analytics. 

Marketing & Strategy

As data and analytics provide new views of supply and demand, we are developing analytics that enable us not only to predict how customers will respond to new offerings, but more fundamentally, to spot opportunities for value propositions and business models that will give people things they want but don’t know how to ask for.

 
Health Management

Having a high-res view of patterned human interaction offers unprecedented opportunities to explain health outcomes and redesign health systems and specific therapies for three major benefits: (1) to deliver better outcomes, (2) to give people greater satisfaction with their health, and (3) to make the most of a finite budget for healthcare.

Economics

When it comes to understanding sources of economic growth and decline, data anad analytics are both an important topic of study and an important toolkit for research. As a topic, we want to understand how data and analytics affect economic growth. As a toolkit, we are exploring new ways to track and monitor economic activity.

Entrepreneurship & Innovation

When it comes to entrepreneurial spirit and innovation, not all organisations (or people) are created equal, and understanding the conditions that foster and support entrepreneurship is an extremely important question not only for investors and entrepreneurs, but also for policy makers.



it's the largest of its kind in Europe with an immense data processing capacity and envelop being circular wall of 64 monitors with three hundred and thirteen degrees of surround vision and a total resolution of more than a hundred and thirty million pixels with greens that
are driven by 32 computers welcome to the KPMG date observatory at the data science institute at Imperial College London Imperial is home to thousands of world-class researchers at the space for

global collaborations where teams of researchers in business people can work together to analyze and visualize big data based on the data sides Institute the observatory is uniquely positioned
to help him realize the full potential corporate information it's bringing data science research closer to the world of business enabling businesses to visualize their data will help them see

new patents and emerging trends with greater clarity than ever before and this is just the start from learning more about climate change to combating online fraud and gaining

insight into our solar system the potential of the data observatory in the dawning information age is limitless
