  
Item 1: Business 

      Organized in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, develops, manufactures, markets and services integrated circuit fabrication equipment for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Customers for these products include semiconductor wafer manufacturers and semiconductor integrated circuit (or chip) manufacturers, who either use the semiconductors they manufacture in their own products or sell them to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. 

      Most chips are built on a silicon wafer base and include a variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple layers of wiring (interconnects). As the density of the circuit components is increased to enable greater computing power in the same or smaller area, the complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating the formation of smaller structures and more intricate wiring schemes. To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit components are first created on the surface of the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and remove selected film layers. Similar processes are then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. A typical, simplified process sequence for building the wiring portion of copper-based chips involves initially depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer of circuit components using a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) system. An etch system is then used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To form the metal wiring, these openings and patterns are subsequently filled with conducting material using physical vapor deposition (PVD) and/or electrochemical plating (ECP) technologies. A chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) step then polishes the wafer to maintain a flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP steps are then performed to build up the layers of wiring needed to complete the interconnection of the circuit elements to form the chip. Advanced chip designs require about 500 steps involving these and other processes to complete the manufacturing cycle. 

      Applied operates in a single industry segment for the manufacture, marketing and servicing of integrated circuit fabrication equipment. Applied currently manufactures systems that perform most of the primary steps in the chip fabrication process, including: atomic layer deposition (ALD), CVD, PVD, ECP, etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing (RTP), CMP, metrology and wafer inspection. Applied’s subsidiary, AKT, Inc. (AKT), manufactures CVD systems and array testers for making flat panel displays (FPDs) used in notebook computers, desktop monitors, televisions and other applications. Applied’s subsidiary, Etec Systems, Inc. (Etec), is a manufacturer of systems that generate, etch, measure and inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography process. Applied also provides products and services to enhance manufacturing yields. 

      Most of Applied’s products are single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to a base platform. The simultaneous processing of several wafers enables high manufacturing productivity and precise control of the process. Applied sells most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on four basic mainframes: the Centura®, the Endura®, the Producer® and the VantageTM platforms. These platforms currently support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies. 

      Throughout its history, the semiconductor industry has migrated to increasingly larger wafers to build its chips. The predominant wafer size used for volume production today is 200mm, or eight-inch, wafers, but 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

many fabs are now transitioning to 300mm, or 12-inch, wafers to gain the economic advantages of a larger surface area. Applied offers a comprehensive line of systems for processing both 200mm and 300mm wafers. 
      A majority of process steps used in chipmaking are performed to build the interconnect, a complex matrix of microscopic wires that carry electrical signals to connect the transistor and capacitor components of a chip. Customers are transitioning from using aluminum as the main conducting material for the interconnect to copper, which has lower resistance than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area. Applied is a leading supplier of systems for manufacturing copper-based chips, ranging from the systems to deposit tantalum nitride barrier and copper materials to CMP products, for smoothing these layers for optimized planarity. 

      Complementing the transition to copper to improve chip speed is the use of highly efficient low dielectric constant (low k) films to replace silicon dioxide as the insulator between the copper wiring structures. Applied leads the industry in providing a low k dielectric process that is being used in volume production by a number of semiconductor manufacturers. 

      The transistor portion of the chip is another area in which semiconductor manufacturers are advancing their device designs to improve speed. Applied introduced several new products this year for these new applications, particularly in the areas of epitaxy, nitride and tungsten deposition to enable these enhanced designs. 

Products 

      The following summarizes Applied’s portfolio of products and process technologies. 

 
  
 Deposition 

      Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a semiconductor. During deposition, a layer of either dielectric (material used as insulation between conductors) or electrically conductive (typically metal materials used to carry current) film is deposited or grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to perform the four main types of deposition: atomic layer deposition, chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition and electrochemical plating. Applied also offers certain types of dielectric deposition processes using its rapid thermal processing systems. 

 
  
 Atomic Layer Deposition 

      ALD is an emerging technology in which single layers of atoms are used to build chip structures. This technology enables customers to deposit a very thin layer of either conducting or insulating material with uniform coverage in very small areas. Applied offers ALD processes for depositing tungsten and tantalum nitride films. The Applied Endura iCuB/STM product is the industry’s first system to integrate ALD and PVD chambers on a single platform for depositing the critical barrier and seed layers in copper interconnects. The Applied Centura iSprint Tungsten system combines an ALD chamber to deposit a tungsten nucleation film with a CVD tungsten bulk fill process on one system. The iSprint is used to form contact structures that connect the transistors to the wiring areas of the chip. 

 
  
 Chemical Vapor Deposition 

      CVD is used by customers to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric (highly efficient insulating materials), high k dielectric (electrical charge-storing materials), aluminum, titanium, titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and technologies: 

      The Applied Producer CVD system — This high-throughput platform features Twin-ChamberTM modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer platform, giving it a maximum simultaneous processing capacity of six wafers. Many of Applied’s dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this platform. The Applied Producer Advanced Patterning FilmTM process is an innovative CVD hardmask film that enables customers to fabricate sub-50 nanometer (nm) transistor gates and contact structures using standard lithography. In fiscal 2003, the Company introduced the Applied Producer DARC 193 process, a dielectric anti-reflective coating that provides the precise dimensional control and compatibility needed for fabricating interconnects and transistors using advanced lithography methods. 

      The Applied Centura Ultima HDP-CVD® system — High-density plasma CVD (HDP-CVD) is used to fill very small, deep spaces with dielectric film. One of the processes offered on the system is fluorinated 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

silicate glass (FSG), a film with higher insulating value than traditionally-used silicon dioxide material that enables faster chip performance. The Applied Centura Ultima HDP-CVD product is used by a number of major semiconductor manufacturers for gap-fill applications, including the deposition of FSG in their advanced interconnect structures and deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures. 
      Low k Dielectric Films — Many semiconductor manufacturers are now incorporating new low k dielectric materials in their new copper-based chip designs to improve interconnect speed. The Applied Producer Black DiamondTM CVD low k process is being used by customers in volume production to produce some of the industry’s most advanced devices. Using conventional CVD equipment, the Black Diamond process has provided customers with a cost-effective way to transition to this new and challenging material. A complementary low k dielectric film, called the Applied Producer BLOkTM (Barrier Low k) enables the complete, multi-layer dielectric structure to benefit from low k technology. 

      Epitaxial Deposition — Epitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an increasing number of semiconductor devices in both the wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed. The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce production costs. Launched in fiscal 2003, the Applied Centura RP Epi system offers selective epi processes for transistor-level applications. In addition to silicon applications, the Company offers the Applied Centura Epi system for silicon-germanium epi process technology, which can reduce power usage and increase speed in certain types of advanced chips. 

      Polysilicon Deposition — Polysilicon is a type of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure within the semiconductor device. The Applied Centura PolygenTM LPCVD (low pressure chemical vapor deposition) system is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures with high productivity and process control. A variant of the system, the Applied Centura Polycide LPCVD product, combines chambers for polysilicon and tungsten silicide deposition on the Centura platform in an integrated process to create transistor gate structures in memory chips. To address the challenging requirements of 130nm and below devices, the Applied Centura DPN (decoupled plasma nitridation) system integrates chambers for DPN and RTP anneal on one platform to enable superior film quality, material properties and process control. 

      Silicon Nitride Deposition — The Applied Centura SiNgenTM LPCVD system is a single-wafer, high-temperature system that deposits silicon nitride films in transistor-area applications. This system minimizes the amount of time the wafer is exposed to high temperatures and reduces particles while improving operating cost and productivity in critical transistor nitride layers for 130nm and below devices. The system also features the DPN chamber which uses a plasma process to incorporate a high concentration of nitrogen into the gate oxide to prevent leakage in devices with 90nm and below designs. 

      Tungsten Deposition — Tungsten material is used in the “contact” area of a chip that connects the transistors to the wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of aluminum wiring. The Company has two products for depositing tungsten: the Applied Centura SprintTM Tungsten CVD system for 130nm and 90nm devices and the advanced Applied Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system. The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on the same platform for 65nm and below applications. 

 
  
 Physical Vapor Deposition 

      PVD, also called sputtering, is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated at a metal target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer. The Applied Endura PVD system offers a broad range of advanced deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys, cobalt, titanium/ titanium nitride, tantalum/ tantalum nitride, tungsten/ tungsten nitride, nickel vanadium and copper (Cu). The Applied Endura CuB/S (copper barrier/seed) PVD system, launched in fiscal 1998, is widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips. Using PVD technology, the system deposits the critical layers that prevent copper material from entering other areas of the device and primes the structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk copper material by electrochemical plating. 

      The Endura’s highly flexible, multi-chamber architecture allows the integration of multiple PVD processes or combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies on the same system. In addition to the integrated Applied Endura iCuB/S ALD/PVD system (discussed in the Atomic Layer Deposition section), the Applied Endura iLB PVD/CVD system combines a PVD chamber for depositing titanium with a CVD chamber for titanium nitride deposition to form the critical lining layers of interconnect structures. These structures are subsequently filled with tungsten, aluminum, copper or other materials. 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

 
  
 Electrochemical Plating 

      Electrochemical plating is a process by which metal atoms from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of an immersed object. Its main application in the semiconductor industry is to deposit copper in interconnect wiring structures. This process step follows the deposition of barrier and seed layers which prevent the copper from contaminating other areas of the device and improve the adhesion of the copper film. 

      The Applied SlimCell ECP (electrochemical plating) system introduced in fiscal 2003, offers a new small-volume cell design that allows independent bath chemistry for multi-step processing. The system enables a reduction in defect levels compared to conventional large bath systems while reducing chemical consumption. 

 
  
 Etch 

      Etching is used many times throughout the semiconductor manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a full range of systems for etching dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the requirements of sub-100nm processing. 

      For dielectric applications, the Applied Centura eMaxTM system etches a broad range of films in the contact and interconnect regions of the chip. The recently introduced high-throughput Applied Producer Etch system targets cost-driven etch applications with 90nm and below design geometries. To address advanced low k etch applications, the Company introduced its Applied Centura EnablerTM Etch system in fiscal 2003 that performs etch, strip and clean steps in a single chamber. The Enabler’s all-in-one capability streamlines the process flow for 65nm and below chip designs and significantly reduces operating costs. 

      The Applied Centura DPS Etch systems are used to etch conducting films, such as metal and silicon materials, and offer customers the technology, productivity and reliability required for 100nm and below processing. The Applied Centura TransformaTM Etch patterning system combines silicon etch technology with integrated metrology capability to enable customers to improve process control, device yield and overall fab cycle time for building advanced transistor gate structures. 

 
  
 Ion Implantation 

      During ion implantation, silicon wafers are bombarded by a beam of ions, called dopants, that penetrate (or implant) the film surface to a desired depth. The implantation step is used during transistor fabrication to change the properties of a material and achieve a particular electrical performance. 

      Low-energy, high current implant technology is key to enabling the fabrication of smaller structures, which contributes to faster transistor performance. The Applied QuantumTM II system provides customers with the capability to create thin, advanced transistor structures for sub-100nm applications. 

 
  
 Rapid Thermal Processing 

      RTP subjects a wafer to rapid bursts of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. RTP is used mainly for modifying the properties of deposited films. The Applied Centura XE+ and Radiance® RTP systems offer advances in temperature and ramp rate control as well as other features aimed at providing leading-edge capability for sub-130nm generations. These single-wafer systems are also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition steps that traditional batch furnaces can no longer achieve with the necessary precision and control. The Company also offers the Applied Vantage Radiance RTP system, a streamlined platform designed for high-volume 300mm manufacturing. 

 
  
 Chemical Mechanical Polishing 

      CMP removes material from a wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface. This allows subsequent photolithography patterning steps to take place with greater accuracy and enables film layers to build up with minimal height variations. Applied entered the CMP market in 1995 with its Mirra® system and has since added several important features to this product, including integrated cleaning, film measurement and process control capabilities. In fiscal 2003, Applied introduced a new system on its 300mm Applied Reflexion® CMP platform, the Applied Reflexion LK system, for polishing the delicate copper/low k interconnects using low downforce, high-throughput technology. The Reflexion LK is the only CMP system in the industry to 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

integrate single-wafer full immersion vapor drying capability for eliminating defects and improving device yields during the cleaning process. 
 
  
 Metrology and Wafer Inspection 

      Applied offers several types of products that are used to inspect the wafer during various stages of the fabrication process in the following categories: 

 
  
 Critical Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs) 

      Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to form images of microscopic features of a semiconductor wafer at extremely high magnification. Applied provides customers with full automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring advanced-generation feature sizes. The Applied NanoSEMTM 3D Metrology system extends CD-SEM technology beyond the measurement of critical dimensions to enable the three-dimensional imaging of chip structures to more precisely control the lithography and etching processes. 

      DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as, particles, scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect detection system and then classify the defects to identify their source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied SEMVisionTM G2 Defect Analysis system enables customers to use this technology as an integral part of their production lines to analyze defects as small as 50nm with high productivity. 

      In fiscal 2003, Applied acquired Boxer Cross, Inc. and added the Applied BX-10 Implant/ Anneal Metrology system to its product line. The BX-10 system measures critical process parameters that directly affect transistor performance and provides users with monitoring capability for multiple future device generations. 

 
  
 Wafer Inspection 

      Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on patterned wafers (wafers with circuit images printed on them) as they move between processing steps. Defects may include particles, open circuit lines, shorts between lines or other problems. The Applied ComPlus-EV Inspection system, introduced in fiscal 2003, detects defects in devices with design rules of 90nm and below. Incorporating key advances in imaging technology, the system captures up to 50 percent more defects than the previous system with the high speed required for customers’ volume production lines. 

 
  
 Flat Panel Displays 

      The most advanced flat panel displays (FPDs) are manufactured using technologies similar to those for making semiconductors. One difference is the vastly larger area of the substrate (panel). Compared to today’s largest wafers (300mm diameter), the panels can be up to 35 times larger in area. New generation FPD fabs are being built primarily for manufacturing large-area flat panel liquid crystal display (LCD) television screens, which is experiencing strong demand and is projected to continue growing at significant rates as consumers move to larger home entertainment systems. 

      Applied supplies plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems and electron beam array testers to FPD manufacturers. Applied offers a range of systems that can process different substrate sizes to meet the industry’s requirements for ever larger substrates. In response to the growing market for larger LCD screens, Applied introduced its latest PECVD system in fiscal 2003, the sixth-generation AKT-25K PECVD, which addresses FPD fab requirements for substrates larger than one square meter. 

 
  
 Mask Making 

      Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since any imperfection will be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be defect-free with precise imaging. Applied provides systems for the writing, etching, measurement and inspection of masks. 

Customer Service and Support 

      Applied Global Services plays a critical role in the Company’s ability to continuously satisfy its customers’ production requirements. Approximately 3,000 trained customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually located at or near the customers’ fab sites and service over 16,000 installed Applied systems. 

      Applied’s line of service products offers an innovative approach to maintaining and servicing Applied equipment in customers’ fabs. With the Applied Total Parts Management® (TPM) program, the Company 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

provides an inventory management service for the spare parts used in Applied’s systems at a customer’s fab. A second product, called the Applied Total Support Package® (TSP), is a comprehensive equipment service solution that includes parts management along with system cost and performance improvement targets for Applied’s equipment at the customer’s location. The Applied SparesSolutionsTM program is an on-line customer support service that streamlines the procurement of spare parts. The Applied Total Kit ManagementTM program provides customers with a convenient, cost-effective way to manage their systems’ process kit service requirements. Applied also refurbishes and sells previously used Applied equipment. 
Backlog 

      Applied’s backlog decreased from $3.2 billion at October 27, 2002 to $2.5 billion at October 26, 2003. Applied manufactures its systems based on order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders for which written authorizations have been accepted, shipment dates within 12 months have been assigned and revenue has not been recognized. In addition, backlog includes service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months. However, customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Backlog adjustments for fiscal 2003 totaled $553 million, which consisted of cancellations, currency and other adjustments. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, Applied’s backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and/or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results of operations. 

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies 

      Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems in Austin, Texas. Applied also has manufacturing operations in Santa Clara, California; Hillsboro, Oregon; Horsham, England; and Rehovot, Israel. Production requires some raw materials, including a wide variety of mechanical and electrical components, to be manufactured to Applied’s specifications. Applied uses numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies (parts) for the manufacture and support of its products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible; accordingly, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied has sought, and will continue to seek, to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by: 1) selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts; 2) monitoring the financial condition of key suppliers; 3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts; and 4) qualifying parts on a timely basis. 

Research, Development and Engineering 

      Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued development of new manufacturing products. Applied’s significant investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems and processes that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Product development and engineering organizations are primarily located in the United States, as well as in the United Kingdom and Israel, with process support and customer demonstration laboratories in the United States, the United Kingdom and Israel. 

      Applied invested $1.2 billion (16 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001, $1.1 billion (21 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002 and $921 million (21 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2003, in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to create new product lines and improve existing technologies. Applied has spent an average of 16 percent of net sales on RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs in software, automation control systems, materials research and environmental control that have applications to its products. In fiscal 2003, Applied focused on developing systems for customers’ new chip designs, including systems to enable faster and denser transistor and interconnect structures with 65nm and below linewidths. 

Marketing and Sales 

      Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells its products worldwide through a direct sales force. For fiscal 2003, net sales to customers in each region as a percentage of Applied’s total net sales were: North America (primarily the United States) 26 percent, Japan 18 percent, Europe 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

16 percent, Korea 15 percent, Taiwan 13 percent and Asia-Pacific (including China) 12 percent. Applied’s business is usually not seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical based on the capital equipment investment patterns of major semiconductor manufacturers. These expenditure patterns are based on many factors, including anticipated market demand for integrated circuits, the development of new technologies and global and regional economic conditions. 
      During fiscal 2003, more than 70 percent of Applied’s net sales were to regions outside the United States of America. Managing Applied’s global operations presents challenges and involves uncertainties that may affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For further discussion, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Trends, Risks and Uncertainties — Applied is Exposed to the Risks of Operating a Global Business.” 

      Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic regions is included in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net sales to Intel Corporation represented 12 percent of Applied’s fiscal 2001 net sales, and 10 percent of Applied’s fiscal 2002 net sales. During fiscal 2003, two customers individually accounted for greater than 10 percent of net sales: net sales to Intel Corporation represented 13 percent of Applied’s net sales, and net sales to Samsung America, Inc. represented 12 percent of Applied’s net sales. 

Competition 

      The global semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and is characterized by increasingly rapid technological advancements and demanding worldwide service requirements. Applied’s ability to compete depends on its ability to commercialize its technology and continually improve its products, processes and services, as well as its ability to develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors for succeeding in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment market include the equipment’s technical capability, productivity and cost-effectiveness, and level of technical service and support provided by the vendor. The importance of each of these factors varies depending on the specific customer’s needs and criteria, including considerations such as the customer’s process application, product requirements, timing of the purchase and particular circumstances of the purchasing decision. The pace of technological change is rapid, with customers continually moving to smaller critical dimensions and larger wafer sizes and adopting new materials for fabricating the chip. Existing technology can be adapted to the new requirements; however, these requirements sometimes create the need for an entirely different technical approach. The rapid pace of technological change continually creates opportunities for existing competitors and startups, and can quickly diminish the value of existing technologies. 

      Substantial competition exists for each of Applied’s products. Competitors range from small companies that compete with a single product and/or in a single region to global companies with multiple lines of semiconductor processing products. Competitors in a given technology tend to have different degrees of market presence in the various regional markets. Management believes that Applied is a strong competitor and that its competitive position is based on the ability of its products and services to continue to address customer requirements. Success for Applied will require a continued high level of investment in RD&E and in sales, marketing and customer support activities. 

Patents and Licenses 

      Management believes that Applied’s competitive position is significantly dependent upon skills in engineering, manufacturing and marketing, and not just on its patent position. However, protection of Applied’s technological assets by obtaining and enforcing patents is important. Therefore, Applied has a practice to file patent applications in the U.S. and other countries for inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new developments in its equipment and processes. Applied does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent, although taken as a whole, the rights of Applied and the products made and sold under its patents are a significant element of Applied’s business. In addition to patents, Applied also possesses other proprietary intellectual property, including trademarks, knowhow, trade secrets and copyrights. 

      Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when management determines that it is in its best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed to Applied for the life of the patents. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from and paid to third parties have not been and are not expected to be material. 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms and/or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

Environmental Matters 

      Two of Applied’s locations have been designated as environmental cleanup sites. In 1987, the United States Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations, in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named Applied as a “Responsible Party.” Cleanup activities at this site began in 1984 and were substantially completed in February 2002. The California Regional Water Quality Control Board has designated Applied as a “Discharger” with respect to the other site in Sunnyvale, California. Applied was named a Discharger at the Sunnyvale site in 1997 as it currently owns the site in question; however, prior owners and operators are responsible for performing cleanup and monitoring activities. Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety programs that are primarily preventive in nature. Neither compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating discharge of materials into the environment, nor remedial agreements or other actions relating to the environment, has had, or is expected to have, a material effect on Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health and safety activities can be found on the Company’s web site at http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/ environment.html. This report will be updated in the future. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only; none of the information contained on Applied’s website is part of this report or is incorporated by reference herein. 

Employees 

      None of Applied’s employees are represented by a trade union, and management considers its relations with employees to be good. In the high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon its continued ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. At October 26, 2003, Applied employed 12,050 regular employees. 

Available Information 

      Applied’s website is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only; none of the information contained on Applied’s website is part of this report or is incorporated by reference herein. 
