ITEM 1.     BUSINESS 

Company Overview 

      We are a leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of high-performance analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing integrated circuits. Since our inception in 1965, we have focused on solving the engineering challenges associated with signal processing in electronic equipment. Signal processing is where the analog and digital worlds meet to provide the advantages of digital technology to the real world. 

      Our products play a fundamental role in converting real-world phenomena such as temperature, motion, pressure, light and sound into electrical signals to be used in a wide array of electronic equipment ranging from industrial process control, factory automation equipment, security systems, defense electronics, base stations, central office equipment, wireless telephones, computers, automobiles, CAT scanners, digital cameras and DVD players. Signal processing is the cornerstone of high-speed communications, digital entertainment, and other consumer, computer and industrial applications. As new generations of digital applications evolve, they generate new needs for high-performance analog and digital signal processing, or DSP, technology. 

      We produce a wide range of products that are designed to meet the technology needs of a broad base of customers. Markets for our products include communications, computers and computer peripherals, consumer electronics and industrial applications. 

      During fiscal 2003, approximately 35% to 40% of our revenue came from the industrial market, which includes factory automation, medical equipment, scientific instrumentation, automatic test equipment, automotive electronics, security equipment and aerospace and defense systems. 

      Revenues from the communications market also represented approximately 35% to 40% of our fiscal 2003 revenues. Communications applications include wireless handsets and base stations, as well as products used for high-speed access to the Internet, including broadband modems and central office networking equipment. 

      We also serve the personal computer market with products that monitor and manage power usage, process signals used in flat panel displays and multimedia projectors and enable CD-quality audio. In fiscal 2003, the computer market accounted for approximately 15% of our revenue. 

      The demand for our products in high-performance consumer electronics has been increasing and represented approximately 10% of our revenue for fiscal 2003. Applications in this market include digital cameras and camcorders, DVD players, digital televisions and surround sound audio systems. 

      We sell our products worldwide through a direct sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales representatives. We have direct sales offices in 19 countries, including the United States. 

      We are headquartered near Boston, in Norwood, Massachusetts, and have manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, California, North Carolina, Ireland and the Philippines. We were founded in 1965 and are incorporated in Massachusetts. As of November 1, 2003, we employed approximately 8,400 individuals worldwide. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ADI and is included in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. 

      We maintain a website with the address www.analog.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. 

1 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Industry Background 

      All electronic signals fall into one of two categories, analog or digital. Analog, also known as linear, signals represent real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, speed and motion. This information can be detected and measured using analog sensors, which represent real-world phenomena by generating continuously-varying voltages and currents. The signals from these sensors are initially processed using analog methods, such as amplification, filtering and shaping. They are then usually converted to digital form for storage or further manipulation. The further manipulation of the signals after conversion to digital form is called “digital signal processing.” Digital signals represent the “ones” and “zeros” of binary arithmetic and are either on or off. Digital signals are frequently converted back to analog form for functions such as video display, audio output or control. These manipulations and transformations from analog to digital and back to analog are known as “real-world signal processing” within the signal chain. 

      Significant advances in semiconductor technology in recent years have substantially increased the performance and functionality of integrated circuits, or ICs, used in signal processing applications. These advances include the ability to combine analog and digital signal processing capability on a single chip, thereby making possible more highly-integrated solutions. The widespread application of low-cost microprocessor-based systems and of digital communication technologies has increased the need for signal conditioning interfaces between the analog and digital world. At the same time, the convergence of computing and communications has resulted in end products that incorporate state-of-the-art signal processing capability onto as few chips as possible. Our products are designed to be used within electronic equipment to achieve higher performance, including greater speed, improved accuracy, more efficient signal processing and minimized power consumption. 

Principal Products 

      We design, manufacture and market a broad line of high-performance ICs that incorporate analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing technologies. Our ICs are designed to address a wide range of real-world signal processing applications. Across the entire range of our signal processing ICs are both general purpose products used by a broad range of customers and applications as well as application-specific products designed for specific clusters of customers in vertical markets. By using readily available, high-performance, general-purpose products in their systems, our customers can reduce the time they need to bring new products to market. Given the high cost of developing customized ICs, our standard products often provide the most cost-effective solution for many low to medium volume applications. In some communications, computer and consumer products, we focus on working with leading customers to design application-specific solutions. We begin with our existing core technologies in analog, DSP and mixed-signal, and devise a solution to more closely meet the needs of a specific customer or group of customers. Because we have already developed the core technology for our general-purpose products, we can create application-specific solutions quickly. 

      We produce and market several thousand products. Our ten highest revenue products accounted for approximately 18% of our revenue for fiscal 2003. The majority of our products are proprietary, meaning equivalent products are not available from competitors. A limited number of other companies may provide products with similar functions. 

 
  
 Analog Products 

      Our analog IC technology has been the foundation of our business for nearly four decades, and we believe we are one of the world’s largest suppliers of analog ICs. Our analog ICs are primarily high-performance devices, generally defined as devices that support a minimum of 10-bits of accuracy and a minimum of 50 megahertz of speed. The principal advantages these applications have versus competitors’ products include higher accuracy, lower cost per function, smaller size, lower weight and fewer components for improved reliability. The majority of our analog IC product revenue is attributable to sales of data converters and amplifiers. The data converter and amplifier product categories represented approximately 60% of our fiscal 2003 revenues. Other analog IC products include analog signal processing devices such as analog multipliers, switches, multiplexers and comparators. Over the past several years we have been expanding our analog IC 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

product offerings along the entire analog signal chain and into product areas such as radio frequency integrated circuits, or RF ICs, power management and thermal monitoring ICs. 
      The majority of our analog IC products are proprietary to us in their design and general purpose in their application. This allows customers to incorporate our products into a wide variety of electronic equipment and systems. Our product portfolio includes several thousand analog ICs, any one of which can have as many as several hundred customers. Our analog ICs typically have long product life cycles. Our analog IC customers include both original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and customers who build electronic subsystems for integration into larger systems. 

      Our analog technology base also includes products using an advanced IC technology known in the industry as surface micromachining, which is used to produce semiconductor products known as micro-electromechanical systems, or MEMS. This technology enables extremely small mechanical structures to be built on the surface of a chip along with supporting circuitry. In addition to incorporating an electro-mechanical structure, these devices also have analog circuitry for conditioning signals obtained from the sensing element. The integration of signal conditioning and MEMS is a unique feature of our products which we call iMEMS®. Our iMEMS product portfolio includes accelerometers used to sense acceleration, and gyroscopes used to sense position. The majority of our current revenue from micromachined products is derived from accelerometers used by automotive manufacturers in airbag applications. Our next generation of inertial sensors for the airbag market will incorporate both silicon-on-insulator, or SOI, and MEMS technology. SOI MEMS is a process where one layer is used for the MEMS device and the other layer is used for the circuitry. This process will enable more signal processing circuitry to be integrated with the MEMS structure. 

 
  
 DSP Products 

      DSPs are processors that are optimized for high-speed numeric calculations, which are essential for real-time processing of digital data representing analog signals. Our DSP products are designed to be fully programmable and to efficiently execute specialized software programs, or algorithms, associated with processing digitized real-time, real-world data. Programmable DSPs provide the flexibility to modify the device’s function quickly and inexpensively in software. We offer both general-purpose and application-specific DSP products. General-purpose DSP IC customers typically write their own algorithms using software tools that we provide and software tools they obtain from third-party suppliers. Our application-specific DSP products typically include analog and DSP technology and the DSPs are preprogrammed to execute software for applications such as wireless telecommunications or image processing. Our DSPs are designed in families of products that share a common architecture and therefore can execute the same software. We support these products with specialized applications and easy-to-use, low-cost development tools, which reduce our customers’ product development costs and time-to-market. 

 
  
 Mixed-Signal Products 

      Our products also include multi-function mixed-signal devices and chipsets that incorporate combinations of analog and DSP technology. The growing technological demands associated with the use of audio and video in computers and consumer products as well as the networking of communications systems has created new opportunities for these mixed-signal products. Examples of these products include chipsets for communication applications such as global system for mobile cellular phones, or GSM, cable modems, and broadband modems. Other examples include audio input/ output devices for computer applications and electric motor control devices for industrial instrumentation. 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Markets and Applications 

      The following describes some of the characteristics of, and customer products within, our major markets: 

      Industrial — Our industrial market includes the following areas: 

      Industrial Process Automation — Our industrial process automation market includes factory automation systems, automatic process control systems, robotics, environmental control systems and automatic test equipment. These products generally require ICs that offer performance greater than that available from commodity-level ICs, but generally do not have production volumes that warrant custom or application-specific ICs. Combinations of analog and mixed-signal ICs are usually employed to achieve the necessary functionality. Automatic test equipment applications have created opportunities for the design of system-level ICs that require a high level of electronic circuitry. 

      Instrumentation — Our instrumentation market includes engineering, medical and scientific instruments. These products are usually designed using the highest performance analog and mixed-signal ICs available. Customer products include oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, CAT scanners, MRI equipment, blood analyzers and microscopes. 

      Military/ Aerospace — The military, commercial avionics and space markets all require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and reliability specifications. Many of our analog ICs can be supplied in versions that meet appropriate military standards. In addition, many products can be supplied to meet the standards required for broadcast satellites and other commercial space applications. Most of our products sold in this market are specifically-tested versions of products derived from our standard product offering. Customer products include navigation systems, flight simulators, radar systems and security devices. 

      Automotive — Although the automotive market has historically been served with low-cost, low-performance ICs, demand has emerged for higher performance devices for a wide range of safety and entertainment applications. In response, we are developing products specifically for the automotive market. We supply a micromachined IC used as a crash sensor in airbag systems. We believe that other micromachined devices derived from this product may be suitable for other automotive applications, such as roll-over sensing, global positioning satellite, or GPS, automotive navigation systems, anti-lock brakes and “smart” suspension systems. 

      Communications — The development of broadband, wireless and Internet infrastructures around the world has created an important market for our communications products. Communications technology involves the acquisition of analog signals that are converted from analog to digital and digital to analog form during the process of transmitting and receiving data. The need for higher speed and reduced power consumption, coupled with more reliable, bandwidth-efficient communications, has been creating demand for our products, which are used in systems that include digital, analog and mixed-signal processing capability. Our products are used in the full spectrum of signal processing for audio, data, image and video communication. In wireless and broadband communication applications, our products are incorporated into cellular telephones, cellular base station equipment, digital subscriber line, or DSL, modems, pagers, PBX switches, routers and remote access servers. 

      Computers and Computer Peripherals — Increased interface between users and PCs through monitors, printers, scanners and audio devices and the increasing need for power and thermal management capability in PCs have provided opportunities in the computer market. The computer industry seeks to develop and market ever smaller and lighter personal computers. This need increases demand for high-performance ICs that monitor power usage, enabling manufacturers to use smaller batteries and extend battery life between charges. We currently supply a variety of ICs used in this market for functions such as graphic displays, interfaces between PCs and peripherals such as LCD monitors and projectors, power and battery management, and enhanced audio input and output capability for business and entertainment applications. 

      Consumer Electronics — Increased market demand for digital entertainment systems for acquisition, display and digital processing of signals has allowed us to combine analog and digital design capability to provide solutions that are designed to meet the rigorous cost, size and reliability constraints of the consumer 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

electronics market. The emergence of high-performance, feature-rich consumer products, such as digital camcorders and cameras, home theater systems, digital television, video projectors and DVD recorders/ players, has led to the need for high-performance, system-level ICs with a high level of specific functionality. 
Research and Development 

      Our markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and advances. Accordingly, we make substantial investments in the design and development of new products and processes, and the improvement of existing products and processes. We spent approximately $450 million during fiscal 2003 on the design, development and improvement of new and existing products and processes, compared to approximately $424 million during fiscal 2002 and approximately $465 million during fiscal 2001. 

      Our research and development strategy focuses on building technical leadership in core technologies for signal conditioning, conversion and processing. In support of our research and development activities, we employ thousands of engineers involved in product and process development at over 30 design centers and manufacturing sites located throughout the world. 

Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights 

      As of November 1, 2003, we held 817 United States patents and had 439 patent applications pending with the United States Patent and Trademark Office with expiration dates ranging from 2003 through 2022. We believe that while our patents may provide some advantage, our competitive position is largely determined by such factors as the system and application knowledge, ability and experience of our personnel, the range and number of new products being developed by us, our market brand recognition and ongoing marketing efforts, customer service and technical support. It is generally our policy to seek patent protection for significant inventions that may be patented, though we may elect, in certain cases, not to seek patent protection even for significant inventions, if other protection, such as maintaining the invention as a trade secret, is considered more advantageous. We also have trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business to distinguish genuine Analog Devices’ products and we maintain cooperative advertising programs to promote our brands and identify products containing genuine Analog Devices’ components. In addition, we have registered certain of our mask sets under the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984. 

      There can be no assurance that any patent will issue on pending applications or that any patent issued will provide substantive protection for the technology or product covered by it. There also can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that our confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, silicon foundries and other suppliers and vendors will be adequate to protect our interests. Moreover, the laws of countries in which we design, manufacture and market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. 

      The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights, including claims arising under our contractual indemnification of our customers. We have received from time to time, and may receive in the future, claims from third parties asserting that our products or processes infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced either to redesign or to stop production of products incorporating that intellectual property, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or other of our intellectual property rights or to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of our key personnel. See Note 12 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information concerning pending litigation that involves us. An adverse outcome in this or other litigation could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the litigation is resolved. 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Sales Channels 

      We sell our products in North America and internationally through a direct sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales representatives. 

      Approximately 26% of our fiscal 2003 net sales were to customers in North America. As of December 1, 2003, we had 12 sales offices in the United States and one in Canada. 

      Approximately 19% of our fiscal 2003 net sales were to customers in Europe. As of December 1, 2003, we had direct sales offices in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom. 

      Approximately 18% of our fiscal 2003 net sales were to customers in Japan and 37% to customers in other international markets, principally in Southeast Asia. As of December 1, 2003, we had direct sales offices in China, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. 

      We also had sales representatives and/or distributors in approximately 47 countries outside North America, including countries where we also have direct sales offices. For further detail regarding financial information about geographic areas, see Note 4 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

      A significant portion of our fiscal 2003 revenue was derived from sales made through distributors. Revenue is deferred on sales made through distributors until the distributors resell the products to the end users. These distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. Some of them also sell products competitive with our products, including those for which we are an alternate source. Sales to certain distributors are made under agreements that provide protection to the distributors for their inventory of our products against price reductions and products that are slow-moving or that we have discontinued, including limited product return privileges. 

      Our worldwide technical direct field sales efforts are supported by an extensive promotional program that includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade publications, direct mail programs, promotional brochures, technical seminars and participation in trade shows. We publish and distribute full-length databooks, product catalogs, applications guides, technical handbooks and detailed data sheets for individual products. We also provide product and application information and sell products via our worldwide website on the Internet. We maintain a staff of field application engineers who aid customers in incorporating our products into their products. 

      We have tens of thousands of customers worldwide. Our largest single customer represented approximately 3% of our net sales for fiscal 2003, and our 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales in fiscal 2003. 

      See Note 4 “Industry and Geographic Segment Information” of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Foreign Operations 

      Through subsidiaries and affiliates, we conduct business in numerous countries outside the United States. During fiscal 2003, approximately 74% of our revenues were derived from customers in international markets. Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls, import and export controls, and other laws, policies and regulations of foreign governments. 

      We have manufacturing facilities outside the United States in Ireland and the Philippines. In addition to being exposed to the ongoing economic cycles in the semiconductor industry, we are also subject to the economic and political risks inherent in international operations and their impact on the United States economy in general, including the risks associated with ongoing uncertainties and political and economic instability in many countries around the world as well as the economic disruption from acts of terrorism, and the response to them by the United States and its allies. These risks include air transportation disruptions, 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

expropriation, currency controls, currency exchange rate movement, and additional costs related to tax, tariff and freight rates. Although we engage in hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that our competitive position will not be adversely affected by changes in the exchange rate of the United States dollar against other currencies. 
Production and Raw Materials 

      Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a sequence of semiconductor production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the wafer into individual “chips,” or dice, assembly of the dice into packages and electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw materials used to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals (including liquefied gases), precious metals, ceramic and plastic used for packaging. 

      We develop and employ a wide variety of proprietary processes that are specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance linear, mixed-signal and MEMS ICs. We also use bipolar and CMOS wafer fabrication processes. 

      Our IC products are fabricated both at our production facilities and by third-party wafer fabricators. Most of our analog products are manufactured in our own wafer fabrication facilities using proprietary processes. Our DSP products, and a portion of our analog products, are manufactured at third-party foundries using sub-micron digital CMOS processes. We operate wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington and Cambridge, Massachusetts; Sunnyvale, California and Limerick, Ireland. We also operate assembly and test facilities located in the Philippines and use third-party subcontractors. 

      To respond to production capacity requirements, we significantly expanded our analog manufacturing capacity over the past several years. In the second quarter of fiscal 2002, we announced that we would transition products from our three older four-inch wafer fabrication facilities to our three six-inch and one eight-inch wafer fabrication facilities. The closure of our four-inch wafer fabrication facilities was completed in fiscal 2003. Capital spending in fiscal 2003 was $68 million, compared with $57 million incurred in fiscal 2002. We currently plan to make capital expenditures of approximately $130 million in fiscal 2004, which at 5% of annual revenues, is more in-line with historical capital expenditures. Capital expenditures are expected to remain at this level, as we believe we currently have ample installed capacity to significantly increase internal production levels. 

      Our products require a wide variety of components and raw materials, most of which we purchase from third-party suppliers. We have multiple sources for the majority of the components and materials we purchase and incorporate into our products. However, in some cases, we purchase components from sole-source suppliers, such as external foundries. If these sole-source suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver sufficient quantities of components to us on the time schedule and of the quality that we require, we may be forced to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers. Although we have experienced shortages of components from time to time, these items have generally been available to us as needed. 

Backlog 

      Backlog at the end of fiscal 2003 was approximately $387 million, up from approximately $262 million at the end of fiscal 2002. This increase is the result of the strong demand for our products we experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. We define backlog as of a particular date as firm orders with a customer requested delivery date within thirteen weeks. Backlog is impacted by the tendency of customers to rely on shorter lead times available from suppliers, including us, in periods of depressed demand. In periods of increased demand, there is a tendency towards longer lead times that has the effect of increasing backlog and, in some instances, we may not have manufacturing capacity sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we allow orders to be canceled or deliveries delayed by customers without penalty. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog at any time should not be used as an indication of our future revenues. 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Government Contracts 

      We estimate that approximately 3% of our fiscal 2003 total revenue was attributable to sales to the U.S. government and government contractors and subcontractors. Our government contract business is predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-price subcontracts. All such contracts and subcontracts contain standard provisions relating to termination at the election of the United States government. 

Competition 

      We compete with a number of semiconductor companies in markets that are highly competitive. We believe we are one of the largest suppliers of high-performance analog, mixed-signal and linear signal processing components. Competitors for our analog, mixed-signal and DSP products include Cirrus Logic Inc., Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, Phillips Semiconductor, ST Microelectronics and Texas Instruments, Inc. Sales of our micromachined products are currently comprised of acceleration sensors, and our main competitors in that market are Bosch, Motorola, Inc. and Denso Corporation. 

      We believe that competitive performance in the marketplace for real-world signal processing components depends upon several factors, including technical innovation, product quality and reliability, range of products, product price, customer service and technical support. We believe our technical innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by our commitment to strong customer service and technical support, enables us to compete in our chosen markets against both foreign and domestic semiconductor manufacturers. 

      Many other companies offer products that compete with our products, and some have greater financial, manufacturing, technical and marketing resources than we have. Additionally, some formerly-independent competitors have been purchased by larger companies. Our competitors also include emerging companies selling specialized products to markets we serve. There can be no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased price competition. 

Environment 

      Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 

      We are committed to protecting the environment and the health and safety of our employees, customers and the public. We endeavor to adhere to the most stringent standards across all of our facilities, to encourage pollution prevention and to strive towards continual improvement. We strive to exceed compliance with regulatory standards in order to achieve a standard of excellence in environmental, health and safety management practices as an integral part of our total quality management system. 

Employees 

      As of November 1, 2003, we employed approximately 8,400 individuals worldwide. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly skilled design, process, test and applications engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and the development of new products and processes. We believe that relations with our employees are good, however the competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. 
