ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     When used in this Report, the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes",
"estimates," "plans," and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. These are statements that relate to future periods
and include statements as to our marketing and commercialization of products
under development, plans for enhancements of existing products, plans for future
products, features and uses of our products under development, our patent
applications and intellectual property, increases in possible license offers and
patent infringement claims, expansion of our domestic sales force, the
establishment of an international distribution network, differentiating factors
in the fiber optic market, our competitive advantages, our ability to compete,
the source of our competition, consolidation in our industry, effects of
competition on our operating results, our plans in China, and our anticipated
investments and expenditures. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to,
those risks discussed below, as well as risks related to the development of the
metropolitan, last mile access, and enterprise networks, acceptance of our
products by our customers, our backlog as a reliable indicator of actual sales
for any succeeding period, development of new products by us and our
competitors, our ability to retain and obtain customers, increased competition
in our markets, and our ability to license intellectual property on commercially
reasonable terms; and the risks set forth below under Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Factors That May Affect Results." These forward-looking statements
speak only as of the date hereof. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation
or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any
forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in the
Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions
or circumstances on which any such statement is based.

     In the sections of this report entitled "Business" and "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Factors That May Affect Results," all references to "Alliance
Fiber Optic Products," "AFOP," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" mean Alliance
Fiber Optic Products, Inc. and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear
that the term means only the parent company.

     OPIS is our trademark. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations
and organizations in this document.

OVERVIEW

     Alliance Fiber Optic Products designs, manufactures and markets a broad
range of high performance fiber optic components, and integrated modules
incorporating these components, for leading and emerging communications
equipment manufacturers. We offer a broad range of products including
interconnect devices that are used to connect optical fibers and components,
couplers and splitters that are used to divide and combine optical power, and
dense wavelength division multiplexing, or DWDM, devices that separate and
combine multiple specific wavelengths. Our emphasis on design for manufacturing
and our comprehensive manufacturing expertise enable us to produce our products
efficiently and in volume quantities. Our product scope and ability to integrate
our components into optical modules enable us to satisfy a wide range of
customer requirements throughout the optical networking market. Our customers
deploy our products in long-haul networks that connect cities, metropolitan
networks that connect areas within cities, last mile access networks that
connect to individual businesses and homes, and enterprise within businesses.

     We were incorporated in California in December 1995. In October 2000, prior
to our initial public offering, we reincorporated in Delaware as Alliance Fiber
Optic Products, Inc.

                                        1
<PAGE>

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     The popularity of the Internet and the growing number of data intensive
Internet-based applications and services has fueled a significant increase in
the volume of data traffic. This traffic growth has increased the demands on
communication networks originally developed to primarily transport voice
traffic. To meet this demand, many communications service providers are
designing and installing new networks based on fiber optic technology, which
provides greater data-carrying capacity, or bandwidth, and increased
transmission speeds compared to existing communications networks. Until
recently, most of the fiber deployed had been dedicated to long-haul networks.
However, the demands for high-speed network access and bandwidth are shifting
the focus towards more complex metropolitan networks and last mile access
networks, which require an increasing number of connections and components.

     Optical fiber is currently being deployed across the following segments of
communications networks: long-haul, metropolitan, last mile access, and
enterprise.

     Long-haul networks. Long-haul networks connect the communications networks
of cities around the world and transport large amounts of data and voice
traffic. To solve congestion problems, service providers have invested
significant resources in the deployment of optical infrastructure. As a result,
current long-haul networks provide high bandwidth for transmitting data over
very long distances. The build-out of long-haul networks represents an important
step in improving network infrastructure to support increased demand for new
services and greater traffic volumes.

     Metropolitan networks. Metropolitan networks connect long-haul networks to
last mile access networks within urban areas. Due to the increase in data
traffic and the demand for enhanced services, the existing metropolitan network
infrastructure has become a bottleneck for the provision of communications
services to business and residential end users. As a result, service providers
are making investments in infrastructure to reduce capacity constraints in
metropolitan networks.

     Last mile access networks. Last mile access networks connect business and
residential end users to their service provider in order to provide increased
bandwidth to the end user. Traditional access networks use the existing copper
wire based infrastructure, which is slow compared to the high-speed networks
commonly used within businesses. Established and new service providers are
beginning to deploy fiber technologies in the last mile access network in order
to provide high bandwidth connectivity to the end user.

     Enterprise networks. Local area networks serving the business community
have utilized fiber optic links for over a decade. Historically these links have
connected vertical backbone requirements between various floors of copper-based
networks within office buildings. Over the last several years, as the bandwidth
of local networks has increased, optical fiber has become a pervasive medium for
horizontal network links especially in the storage network environment.

     Service providers are seeking to maximize the performance and capacity of
both new and existing optical networks through advances in optical technology.
Wavelength division multiplexing, or WDM, has been used for several years to
increase system capacity by combining different light signals at different
wavelengths, on a single optical fiber. Each wavelength represents a separate
high-bandwidth channel that can carry data. Multiplexing devices combine, or
multiplex, these different wavelengths at one end of the optical network, and
demultiplexing devices, or demultiplex, separate them at the other end. WDM
technology has been enhanced with the introduction of dense wavelength division
multiplexing, or DWDM, which permits the wavelengths to be spaced more closely
together. The tighter spacing allows even more wavelengths to be transmitted on
one optical fiber. The use of WDM and DWDM technology is well established in the
long-haul market and is increasingly utilized in the metropolitan and last mile
access markets.

     Fiber optic components are used within optical networks to create, combine,
isolate, amplify, split, direct and perform various other functions on the
optical signals. Fiber optic components are divided into two broad categories,
active and passive components. Active components require power to operate and

                                        2
<PAGE>

use electrical signals to create, modulate or amplify optical signals. Passive
optical components guide, mix, filter, route, adjust and stabilize optical
signals transmitted through an optical network.

PRODUCTS

     Our passive optical products support the needs of current and next
generation optical network systems applications. Our Optical Path Management
Solution, or OPMS (formerly known as Optical Path Integration Solution, or
OPIS), product family provides a comprehensive line of optical interconnect
devices, couplers and splitters and related optical products, as well as
customized integrated modules incorporating these devices. Our Wavelength
Management Solutions, or WMS, include WDM and DWDM components and modules that
utilize thin film filter technologies to separate optical signals. Our advanced
optical devices include our all-fiber optical depolarizer, which reduces the
degree of polarization of a light source, our automatic variable optical
attenuator, which controls the amount of power in an optical fiber, and our
switchable optical drop/add module, which inserts or extracts specific
wavelengths in a DWDM system.

     The following is a discussion of our product offerings and the products we
are developing.

     OPMS PRODUCTS. In nearly all fiber optic networks, the optical fiber,
passive optical components and active optical devices must be joined using
optical interconnection systems. Our OPMS platform provides fundamental
component support for these applications as well as standard and custom value
added integrated solutions that address the need for higher functionality and
modularity.

     OPMS Modules. The evolution of optical components is driven by the
increasing need for packaging density, module performance and overall cost
effectiveness. We design and package our various OPMS components to provide
integrated modules for our customers. Our integrated modules are designed to
reduce our customers' system design requirements and ease implementation.

     Optical Connectors, Adapters and Cable Assemblies. Optical connectors and
adapters are precision devices that connect fibers together. Optical cable
assemblies are used to bridge relatively short distances with optical paths. We
offer a broad range of industry standard connection products that support a wide
range of fiber and fiber cable types. Further, with our integrated design and
manufacturing capability, we are able to customize these products to meet our
customers' needs for compact size and special features. We specialize in
providing our customers with high performance custom cable assemblies to serve
in conjunction with our optical interconnection solutions at all interface
points in the optical communications network.

     Fused Fiber Optical Splitters and Couplers. Fused fiber optical splitters
and couplers are branching devices that are used to split optical power from a
single fiber, or set of fibers, into a different set of fibers. They are often
used to distribute optical signals to multiple locations for processing. These
devices utilize signal and power sharing features to reduce the total cost of
delivering bandwidth to end-users. Our optical splitters and couplers reduce
insertion loss, or the power loss incurred when inserting components into an
optical path, and deliver high performance, including uniform optical wavelength
splitting.

     Optical Tap Couplers and Ultra Low Polarization Dependent Loss Tap
Couplers. Optical tap couplers are fused fiber branching devices that split off
a portion of light to allow for optical monitoring and feedback. These devices
are used extensively in fiber amplifier power control. They are also utilized in
transmission equipment for performance monitoring and control. Our ultra low
polarization dependent loss devices offer low levels of sensitivity to
polarization, which is a characteristic of light that can cause a reduction in
the power of optical signals. These devices enable more effective monitoring and
management of optical networks.

     Amplifier WDM Couplers. Amplifier WDM couplers are used with specialized
fibers to combine or separate specific wavelengths of light associated with
standard telecommunications optical amplifier requirements. Our amplifier WDM
couplers are stable low power loss components with high power handling
capability.

                                        3
<PAGE>

     Optical Fixed Attenuators. Optical fixed attenuators diminish the optical
power within a given optical path without interference or reduction in optical
signal quality. Typically this function is embedded in an optical connector or
adapter element to simplify optical network installation. We utilize attenuated
fiber that reduces power while preserving performance characteristics, including
optical signal quality and reliability.

     Fused Fiber WDM Couplers. Fused fiber WDM couplers are used to combine and
separate optical signals transmitted on different wavelengths. This function
provides the first level of bandwidth expansion for a network by increasing a
fiber's signal carrying capacity. Fused fiber WDM couplers may also be used to
add additional functionality to the network such as network status monitoring.
Our fused fiber WDM couplers provide a cost effective way to minimize loss and
maximize wavelength isolation.

     FILTER-BASED WAVELENGTH MANAGEMENT PRODUCTS. In recent years, wavelength
division multiplexing has become the preferred method of increasing bandwidth
throughout optical networks. Our filter-based products serve WDM and DWDM
systems as core passive elements that direct and manage larger numbers of
optical signal channels. Our wavelength management products also enable network
DWDM systems to manage and monitor a large number of optical signals by
separating these signals into different paths that can be processed
individually.

     Filter WDMs. Our thin film filter based WDMs are used to combine and
separate optical signals. Our filter-based products allow for higher isolation
and narrower wavelength separations than fused fiber technology. Our filter WDMs
are designed for a range of network applications including combining active and
passive components and wavelength monitoring, splitting and separating tasks.

     Amplifier Filter WDMs. Amplifier filter WDMs utilize thin film filter
technology to maintain wavelength separation in demanding applications. In
addition, filter technology allows for narrow wavelength separation. Our
amplifier filter WDMs are designed for a range of applications, such as
splitting wavelengths and connecting lasers used in wavelength amplification.

     DWDMs. Dense wave division multiplexers, or DWDMs, are integrated optical
modules that combine, or multiplex, and separate, or demultiplex, multiple
optical signals of different wavelengths on a single fiber. The separation of
wavelengths are so narrow, or dense, that a large number of channels (greater
than 10) can be combined within the band of usable wavelengths of the fiber
itself. We utilize proprietary thin film technology in the development and
manufacture of our DWDM products. This technology delivers excellent performance
characteristics, including narrow channel separation and wide channel bandpass,
which is the range of frequencies that will pass through a filter. Thin film
filter technology allows for a range of solutions for 200 GHz, 100 GHz and 50
GHz International Telecom Union wavelength spacing applications, which permit 40
channels, 80 channels, and 160 channels, respectively, to be transmitted across
a single fiber. Our DWDMs directly address the scalable channel plans found in
metropolitan and last mile access network applications.

     Add/Drop DWDM Filters. Add/drop DWDM filter products are used to insert or
extract specific wavelengths in a DWDM system. While a large number of channels
can be transmitted through a single fiber network, often only selected channels
of information are required at a particular location. Our 200 GHz, 100 GHz and
50 GHz add/drop components use high performance filter technology and operate
with very little optical power loss in order to provide high channel separation
and high stability.

     ADVANCED OPTICAL DEVICES. As the capacity and complexity of optical
networks increases, future systems face significant challenges. Performance
characteristics such as stability, channel balance and power loss due to
polarization become difficult to manage without the addition of optical control
devices. Our advanced optical devices serve to add further control in next
generation networks and network measurement equipment.

     All-Fiber Depolarizers. Depolarizers are devices that reduce the degree of
polarization of a light source. As polarization effects become a more
significant limiting factor in next generation network

                                        4
<PAGE>

performance, depolarization becomes an increasingly important tool in developing
solutions to design constraints. We have developed and patented an all-fiber
depolarizer, which can significantly depolarize light from a range of sources,
including those used in communications networks and fiber optic test and
measurement equipment.

     Automatic Variable Optical Attenuators. Automatic variable optical
attenuators are designed to control the optical power in a fiber. They are often
combined with an active system component to maintain optical power on a network
even if the input signal is changing power. Our automatic variable optical
attenuators are specifically designed for application in DWDM networks for use
with individual channel source elements such as add/drop transmitters. The cost
and performance characteristics of our automatic variable optical attenuators
are specifically targeted to allow for the use of these devices in volume as
principal DWDM channel stabilization components.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret
laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to
establish and protect our proprietary rights. As of December 31, 2001, we had 12
U.S. patents issued or assigned to us and had 27 U.S. patents pending. The 12
U.S. patents expire between May 2017 and August 2019. We also had 14 foreign
patents issued, and 18 foreign patents pending. Our foreign patents issued will
expire between September 2010 and July 2021. We also utilize unpatented
proprietary know-how and trade secrets and employ various methods to protect
them.

     From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, may assert
patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that
are important to us. We expect we will increasingly be subject to license offers
and infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our market
grows and the functions of products overlap. Patents of third parties may be
determined to be valid, or some of our products may ultimately be determined to
infringe them. Other companies may pursue litigation with respect to those or
other claims. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. In the
event of an adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual
property rights relevant to our products that could arise in the future, we
could be required to obtain licenses to the infringing technology, to pay
substantial damages under applicable law, to cease the manufacture, use and sale
of infringing products or to expend significant resources to develop
non-infringing technology. Licenses may not be available from third parties
either on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, litigation
frequently involves substantial expenditures and can require significant
management attention, even if we ultimately prevail. Accordingly, any
infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our
business, operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. As of December
31, 2001, there are no infringement claims or litigation pending against us.

CUSTOMERS

     We sell our products to communications equipment manufacturers that
incorporate our products into their systems that they in turn sell to network
service providers. In certain cases, we sell our products to other component
manufacturers for resale or inclusion in their products. In the year ended
December 31, 2001, we sold our products to more than 250 customers. In the year
ended December 31, 1999, one customer accounted for 11.2% of our revenue. In the
years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001, no individual customer accounted for 10%
or more of our revenues.

     Information regarding geographic areas is included in Note 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

BACKLOG

     Backlog is defined as orders for which we expect to recognize revenues
within the succeeding twelve months. Sales are made pursuant to purchase orders,
which are frequently subject to revision or cancellation. Due to the adverse
market conditions for fiber optic components, the possibility of changes in

                                        5
<PAGE>

delivery or acceptance schedules, cancellations of orders, and price reductions,
we do not believe that our backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable
indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period.

SALES, MARKETING AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND PRODUCT MANAGEMENT

     Sales. Our direct sales force markets and sells our products primarily in
the United States. We also maintain a sales support staff in Taiwan to service
customers based in the Asia Pacific region. Our direct sales force and technical
marketing personnel maintain close contact with our customers and provide
technical support. We are planning to expand our sales force in the United
States and to establish an international distribution network.

     Marketing. We have a number of marketing programs to support the sale and
distribution of our products and to inform existing and potential customers
about the capabilities and benefits of our products. Our marketing efforts
include participating in industry trade shows and technical conferences,
advertising in trade journals and communicating through our corporate website
and direct mail.

     Technical Support and Product Management. We maintain a technically
knowledgeable support staff that is critical to our development of long-term
customer relationships. Our technical support and product management staff works
closely with our customers to understand their product requirements, to assist
customers with utilizing our product line, and to develop customized product
solutions.

COMPETITION

     The fiber optic component industry is highly competitive and subject to
rapid technological change. We believe that the principal differentiating
factors in the fiber optic component market are support for multiple optical
interfaces, high optical power, wavelength selection, manufacturing capacity,
reliable and compact packaging, price, product innovation and reliability. Based
on our assessment of the performance and price of similar competitive offerings,
we believe that our products compare favorably, although we cannot assure that
they will continue to do so.

     Our principal competitors in the components market include Avanex
Corporation, Corning, Inc., DiCon Fiberoptics, Inc., Gould Electronics Inc., JDS
Uniphase, which acquired E-TEK Dynamics in 2000 and SDL, Lucent Technologies
Inc., Luminent, Inc., a subsidiary of MRV Communications, Inc., New Focus, Inc.,
Nortel Networks Corporation, Oplink, Inc., Stratos Lightwave, Inc. and Tyco
Electronics Corporation. We believe that we primarily compete with diversified
suppliers for the majority of our product line and to a lesser extent with a
large number of niche companies that offer a more limited product line.
Competitors throughout the optical component industry, including those who sell
active components, may rapidly become competitors in portions of our business.
Competitors who provide both active and passive components may have a
competitive advantage because they provide a more complete product solution than
we provide. In addition, our industry has recently experienced significant
consolidation, and we anticipate that further consolidation will occur. This
consolidation has further increased competition. We expect significant pricing
pressure from our competitors that may negatively affect our margins. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or future
competitors or that competitive pressures will not seriously harm our business,
operating results and financial condition.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

     As of December 31, 2001, we had 60 engineers and technicians directly
involved in research and development of our products both in the United States
and in Taiwan. Our engineering team has extensive design, packaging, processing
and software experience in optical components, interfaces and systems.

     Our primary product development center is located in Sunnyvale, California,
where we opened our Photonics Technology Center in March 2001. Our Taiwanese
subsidiary also engages in product development. Our research and development
expense, excluding non-cash compensation expense, was $1.5 million, $4.3
million, and $7.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001,

                                        6
<PAGE>

respectively. We have increased, and intend to continue to increase, our
research and development budget and staff to enhance our current product lines
and to develop new technologies and products to serve the next generation
communication markets.

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

     We make significant purchases of key materials, components and equipment,
including ferrules, graded index lenses, or GRIN lenses, filters and other
components from third party suppliers. We obtain most of our critical raw
materials and components from a single or limited number of suppliers. When
possible, we also develop and maintain alternative sources for essential
materials and components. However, there is only one supplier of GRIN lenses.
The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials or components
may result in delays, increased costs, and reductions in our product shipments.

MANUFACTURING

     We currently manufacture the majority of our OPMS (formerly OPIS) and
optical amplifier products at our facility in Tu-Cheng City, Taiwan. We
manufacture our filter-based and advanced products at our headquarters in
Sunnyvale, California. In addition, we are currently expanding our production
capabilities in China, where we plan to manufacture some components of our OPMS
and DWDM-related products.

     Each of our facilities maintains comprehensive in-house manufacturing
processes, including component and integrated module design, integration,
production, and testing. We plan to continue to invest resources in
manufacturing management, engineering and quality control.

     We have established a quality management system, which is designed to
ensure that the products we provide to our customers meet or exceed industry
standards. This system is based on international standard ISO 9000. Our Taiwan
facility has been ISO 9002 certified in manufacturing since June 1997. Our
United States facility has been ISO 9001 certified in manufacturing since August
2000.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2001, we had 376 full-time employees, including 149
located in the United States, 202 in Taiwan and 25 in mainland China. The total
full-time employees included 60 engaged in product development, 255 in
manufacturing production, 21 in sales, marketing, application support and
customer service, and 40 in general and administration. None of our employees
are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and
we consider our relations with our employees to be good.
