ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

GENERAL

Altera Corporation, referred to as "we," "us" or "our," designs, manufactures
and markets programmable logic devices, or PLDs, and associated development
tools. Programmable logic devices are semiconductor integrated circuits that our
customers can program using our proprietary software, which operates on personal
computers and engineering workstations. Founded in 1983, we were one of the
first suppliers of complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS,
programmable logic devices and are currently a global leader in this market. We
offer a broad line of CMOS programmable logic devices that address high-speed,
high-density and low-power applications. Our products serve a wide range of
markets, including telecommunications, data communications, electronic data
processing and industrial applications.

STRATEGY

Three principal types of digital integrated circuits are used in most electronic
systems: microprocessors, memory and logic. Microprocessors are used for control
and computing tasks, memory is used to store programming instructions and data,
and logic is used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals
within a system. While system designers employ a relatively small number of
standard architectures to meet their microprocessor and memory needs, they
require a wide variety of logic circuits to differentiate their end products.

According to Dataquest, the CMOS logic market consists of the following
segments:

        -       Semi-custom or application-specific integrated circuits, or
                ASICs

        -       Standard logic

        -       Full custom devices

        -       Other forms of logic integrated circuits, including chipsets

The ASIC segment is comprised of programmable logic, gate arrays and cell-based
integrated circuits (also referred to as standard cells). In a broad sense, all
of these devices are indirectly competitive as they generally may be used in the
same types of applications in electronic products. However, differences in cost,
performance, density, flexibility, ease-of-use and time-to-market dictate the
extent to which they may be directly competitive for particular applications.

Programmable logic's primary advantage is that it allows for quicker design
cycles, meeting customers' needs for quick time-to-market. Programmable logic
allows customers to experiment and iterate their designs in a relatively short
amount of time and with minimum cost. In most instances, this is quicker and
easier than achieving a design in a deterministic fashion. This advantage is
amplified by the ability to have working silicon at the time the design is
finalized.

Another advantage of programmable logic is that, particularly for small volume
applications, it lowers the per unit cost of producing customized components.
While programmable logic inherently consumes more silicon (because of its
general application and on-chip programming overhead), in many cases, depending
on the complexity of the design and total unit requirements, this higher per
unit cost is more than offset by the high fixed costs of layout and mask-making
required to produce a custom integrated circuit. Further, because unprogrammed
PLDs are standard devices, we, our distributors and subcontract manufacturers --
not our customers -- hold stocks of inventory, thereby enhancing the cost
advantage of PLDs for our customers.

Our strategy is to compete with other companies in the ASIC segment of the CMOS
logic market by providing a total solution for our customers' programming logic
needs. To accomplish this goal, we offer our customers:

        -       PLDs with the speed, density and package types to meet their
                specific needs

        -       State-of-the-art development tools that are easy to use and
                compatible with other industry standard electronic design
                automation, or EDA, tools

        -       Optimized system-level megafunctions to speed their design
                process

        -       A complete customer support system



                                        2
<PAGE>   3

We have been able to introduce new product families that, as compared to their
predecessors, provide more functionality at a much lower price for any given
density because high-volume manufacturing and emerging process technologies have
resulted in cost decreases. We believe these new product families achieve the
integration, density, performance and cost advantages of other ASIC solutions.
We believe that our competitiveness within the ASIC segment in these areas,
along with the inherent advantages of programmable logic discussed above, will
enable us to compete for designs traditionally served by other ASIC devices.

PRODUCTS

We sell a wide range of products, with a total of more than 1,000 product
options among our PLD families. We offer PLDs in two fundamental technologies:
our MAX(R) products, which use floating-gate process technology, and our
FLEX(R), APEX(TM), ACEX(TM) and Excalibur(TM) products, which use static random
access memory, or SRAM, process technology. Our proprietary development tools,
the MAX+PLUS(R) II and Quartus(TM) II software, provide design development and
programming support for our PLDs. We also offer hardware used in programming
PLDs.

Devices:

We offer a wide range of general-purpose PLD families. Each device family offers
unique features as well as differing density and performance specifications for
implementing particular applications. Some of our major device families include
the following:

MAX 7000, MAX 7000S, MAX 7000A and MAX 7000B: The MAX 7000, MAX 7000S, MAX 7000A
and MAX 7000B device families are among the fastest and most widely used
high-density programmable logic families in the industry. Devices in these
families range from 600 to 10,000 usable gates and up to 256 pins and provide
several enhanced features, including support for the industry standard Joint
Test Action Group boundary-scan test, or BST, circuitry and in-system
programmability, or ISP. ISP functionality allows devices to be programmed after
they are soldered onto the printed circuit board, thereby minimizing the
possibility of lead damage or electrostatic discharge exposure when
reprogrammed. The MAX 7000 device families, which includes the 5.0-V MAX 7000
devices and the 5.0-V, ISP-based MAX 7000S devices, the 3.3-V MAX 7000A device
family and what we believe is the industry's fastest programmable logic
solution, the 2.5-V MAX 7000B device family, are fabricated on advanced CMOS
electrically erasable programmable read-only memory, or EEPROM, processes,
providing a high-density, high-speed, I/O-intensive programmable logic
solution. Devices in these families are supported by our MAX+PLUS II development
software.

MAX 3000A: The MAX 3000A devices, which are targeted at high volume, low cost
applications, range from 600 to 5,000 usable gates and up to 158 pins. The MAX
3000A devices include support for BST circuitry and ISP, are fabricated on
advanced CMOS EEPROM processes and are supported by our MAX+PLUS II development
software.

FLEX 8000: The SRAM-based FLEX 8000 device family uses our patented
FastTrack(R) Interconnect structure, a continuous routing structure that
allows for fast, predictable interconnect delays. Devices in this family range
from 2,500 to 16,000 usable gates and up to 304 pins. FLEX 8000 devices have a
5.0-V supply voltage, can interface with 3.3-V devices through the MultiVolt(TM)
I/O feature, provide low standby power and are supported by our MAX+PLUS II
development software.

FLEX 6000: Our SRAM-based FLEX 6000 family delivers the flexibility and
time-to-market advantage of programmable logic at prices that are competitive
with gate arrays. Devices in this family range from 10,000 to 24,000 usable
gates and up to 256 pins and include devices that operate at both 5.0-V and
3.3-V supply voltages. Featuring the very efficient OptiFLEX(R) architecture,
FLEX 6000 devices provide a flexible and cost-effective alternative to gate
arrays for high-volume production. Every feature in the OptiFLEX architecture is
targeted at producing maximum performance and utilization in the smallest
possible die area. Devices in this family are supported by our MAX+PLUS II and
Quartus II development software.

FLEX 10K, FLEX 10KA and FLEX 10KE: Our SRAM-based FLEX 10K, FLEX 10KA and FLEX
10KE device families offer a combination of logic and embedded memory on a
single-chip architecture. Devices in these PLD families range from 10,000 to
250,000 usable gates and up to 672 pins. With these high densities, the 5.0-V
FLEX 10K, the 3.3-V FLEX 10KA and the 2.5-V FLEX 10KE families may be used to
address the increasing levels of integration needed to accommodate today's
complex designs. The FLEX 10K family includes 0.5- and 0.42-micron devices, the
FLEX 10KA family includes 0.35- and 0.3-micron devices and the FLEX 10KE family
includes 0.25- and 0.22-micron devices. Devices in these families are supported
by our MAX+PLUS II development software.

APEX 20K, APEX 20KE and APEX 20KC: Our SRAM-based APEX 20K, APEX 20KE and APEX
20KC device families offer complete system-level integration on a single device,
and the APEX 20KC is the first PLD family utilizing copper for all layers of
metal interconnect. Devices in these families range from 30,000 to over 1.5
million usable gates and up to 1,020 pins. With high densities and performance
enhancements, the APEX 20K, APEX 20KE and APEX 20KC families deliver the latest
in design flexibility and efficiency for high-performance,
system-on-a-programmable-chip, or SOPC, design. APEX 20K devices, which operate
at a 2.5-V supply voltage, and the



                                        3
<PAGE>   4

APEX 20KE and APEX 20KC devices, which operate at a 1.8-V supply voltage, employ
the innovative MultiCore(TM) architecture, which combines the strengths of our
look-up table, product term block and enhanced embedded memory block structures.
The APEX 20K, APEX 20KE and APEX 20KC devices are supported by our Quartus II
development software.

ACEX 1K: Our SRAM-based ACEX 1K device family, which combines look-up tables and
embedded array blocks, offers complete system-level integration on a single
device. Devices in this family range from 10,000 to 100,000 usable gates and up
to 484 pins. Operating at 2.5-V supply voltage, the ACEX 1K devices are
supported by our MAX+PLUS II development software.

EXCALIBUR EMBEDDED PROCESSOR SOLUTIONS: The Excalibur solutions consist of three
embedded processor families, our Nios(TM) soft core embedded processor solution,
the ARM(R)-based embedded processor solution and the MIPS-based(TM) embedded
processor solution. Our Nios soft core embedded processor, which was available
in August 2000 and is supported by our Quartus II development software, is the
industry's first reduced instruction set computer, or RISC, embedded processor
commercially released by a major PLD vendor as a viable alternative to discrete
processor solutions. The ARM-based embedded processor PLD family uses technology
licensed from ARM Limited and will consist of multiple devices that each contain
an ARM-based RISC processor core. The MIPS-based embedded processor PLD family
uses technology licensed from MIPS Technologies, Inc. and will consist of
multiple devices that each contain a MIPS-based RISC processor core. We expect
the ARM-based and MIPS-based embedded processor PLD families to be available in
the first half of 2001.

Development Tools:

Customers use our development system software and hardware to design and
implement logic designs on our PLDs. Our MAX+PLUS II and Quartus II software
development tools run under the Microsoft Windows-based operating environments
on personal computers in addition to the UNIX environment on SUN, HP and IBM
workstations. We also provide interfaces to many industry-standard EDA tools,
including those offered by Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Mentor Graphics
Corporation, Synopsys, Inc. and Synplicity, Inc. We also sell hardware for
programming our PLDs.

In January 2001, we released the Quartus II development software, which we
believe delivers superior designer productivity and supports system-level
designs and integration with third-party tools.

MARKETING, SALES AND CUSTOMERS

We market our products in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia, South America
and Australia through a network of direct sales personnel and electronics
distributors. In the United States and Canada, we also rely on a network of
independent sales representatives. From time to time, we expect that we may add
or delete independent sales representatives or distributors from our selling
organization as we deem appropriate to the level of business.

Throughout the United States, we have domestic sales management offices in major
metropolitan areas. Our direct sales personnel and independent sales
representatives focus on major strategic accounts. Distributors generally focus
selling activities on the broad base of small- and medium-size customers, as
well as demand fulfillment services to our major strategic accounts. Our
distributor in the United States currently is Arrow Electronics, Inc. In 2000,
Arrow acquired Wyle Electronics, which also had served as one of our domestic
distributors. Arrow is responsible for creating customer demand from its base of
customers, providing technical support and other value-added services and
filling customers' orders.

Our international business is supported by a network of distributors throughout
Europe, Asia, South America and Australia. We have representation in every major
European country, Israel, Australia, South America and various countries
throughout the Pacific Rim. In addition, we maintain international sales support
offices in the metropolitan areas of Oosterhout (Netherlands), Helsinki, Hong
Kong, Hsinchu (Taiwan), London, Ottawa, Paris, Seoul, Shanghai, Stockholm,
Stuttgart, Tokyo and Turin.

Customer support and service are important aspects of selling and marketing our
products. We provide several levels of technical user support, including
applications assistance, design services and customer training. Our applications
engineering staff publishes data sheets and application notes, conducts
technical seminars and provides design assistance via Internet and electronic
links to the customer's design station. In 2000, we expanded our customer
support services by establishing an Applications Engineering Center near San
Diego, California to provide technical support to our customers. Customer
service is supported with inventory maintained both by us and at distributors'
locations to provide short-term delivery of chips.

Through 2000, all international sales were denominated in U.S. dollars. Our
international sales are subject to those risks common to all international
activities, including governmental regulation, possible imposition of tariffs or
other trade barriers and currency fluctuations.

In the year ended December 31, 2000, worldwide sales through distributors
accounted for over 95% of total sales. In 2000, two distributors accounted for
more than 10% of sales; one accounted for 58% of sales, and the other accounted
for 11% of sales. In 1999, three distributors



                                        4
<PAGE>   5

accounted for more than 10% of sales. These three distributors accounted for
34%, 19% and 13% of sales, whereas in 1998, they accounted for 30%, 21% and 11%
of sales. The percentage increase for our largest distributor in 2000 compared
to previous years is attributable to the combination of Arrow and Wyle, our two
largest distributors in 1999 and 1998. No single end customer accounted for more
than 10% of our sales in 2000, 1999 or 1998. International sales constituted 43%
of sales in 2000, 44% of sales in 1999 and 45% of sales in 1998.

For a detailed description of our sales by geographic region, see Item 7 and
Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements.

COMPETITION

The ASIC Segment:

The ASIC segment of the CMOS logic market is comprised of programmable logic,
gate arrays and cell-based integrated circuits (also referred to as standard
cells). In a broad sense, all of these devices are indirectly competitive as
they generally may be used in the same types of applications in electronic
products. However, differences in cost, performance, density, flexibility,
ease-of-use and time-to-market dictate the extent to which they may be directly
competitive for particular applications. As PLDs have increased in density and
performance and decreased in cost, they have become more directly competitive
with other ASICs, especially gate arrays. With the introduction of our FLEX 10K
family and new APEX 20K, APEX 20KE and APEX 20KC device families, which are our
highest density PLDs, along with our FLEX 6000 devices, which are designed and
priced to be very competitive with lower density gate arrays, we seek to grow by
directly competing with other companies in the ASIC segment. Many of the
companies in the ASIC segment have substantially greater financial, technical
and marketing resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be
successful in competing in the ASIC segment of the CMOS logic market.

The Programmable Logic Sub-Segment:

The principal factors of competition in the programmable logic sub-segment of
the ASIC market include:

        -       The capability of software development tools and system-level
                functional programming blocks

        -       Product performance and features

        -       Quality and reliability

        -       Pricing

        -       Technical service and support

        -       The ability to respond rapidly to technical innovation

        -       Customer service

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors and that our
proprietary device architecture and our installed base of development systems
with proprietary software may provide some competitive advantage. However, as is
true of the semiconductor industry as a whole, the PLD sub-segment is intensely
competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, rapid rates of
product obsolescence and price erosion resulting from both product obsolescence
and price competition. All of these factors may influence our future operating
results.

We experience significant direct competition from other companies that are in
the programmable logic sub-segment. Our competition in this market sub-segment
is from suppliers of products that are marketed as either field-programmable
gate arrays, or FPGAs, or complex PLDs, or CPLDs. In the high density CPLD
market, we directly compete primarily with Xilinx, Inc. and Lattice
Semiconductor Corporation.

Companies that currently compete with us in our core business may have preferred
vendor status with many of our customers, extensive marketing power, name
recognition and other significant advantages over us. Additionally, the
semiconductor industry as a whole includes many large domestic and foreign
companies that have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing
resources than we do. We expect that as the dollar volume of the programmable
logic sub-segment grows, the attractiveness of this sub-segment to larger, more
powerful competitors will continue to increase. Substantial direct or indirect
competition could have a material adverse effect on our future sales and
operating results.



                                        5
<PAGE>   6

MANUFACTURING

Wafer Supply:

We do not directly manufacture our silicon wafers. Our wafers are produced using
various semiconductor foundry wafer fabrication service providers. This enables
us to take advantage of these suppliers' high volume economies of scale, as well
as direct and more timely access to advancing process technology.

We presently have our primary wafer supply arrangements with two semiconductor
vendors: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, and Sharp
Corporation. We may negotiate additional foundry contracts and establish other
sources of wafer supply for our products as such arrangements become
economically useful or technically necessary. Although there are a number of new
state-of-the-art wafer fabrication facilities currently under construction
around the world, semiconductor foundry capacity can become limited quickly and
without much notice. Furthermore, since only newer fabrication or substantially
retrofitted facilities are able to manufacture wafers that incorporate
leading-edge technologies, any significant decrease in capacity of these
facilities would have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain wafer
supply for our newer products. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any
shortage in foundry manufacturing capacity will not result in production
problems for us in the future.

In December 2000, we sold our 23% equity ownership interest in WaferTech, LLC to
a subsidiary of TSMC for approximately $350 million in cash. WaferTech was
formed in 1996 as a joint venture among us, TSMC and several other partners to
build and operate a wafer manufacturing plant in Camas, Washington. As a result
of the sale, we were released from all of our obligations under the operating
agreement. We expect WaferTech to continue to supply wafers to us through TSMC.
Accordingly, we do not believe that the sale of our ownership interest in
WaferTech will have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain sufficient
quantities of wafers in the future.

We depend upon our foundry vendors to produce wafers at acceptable yields and to
deliver them to us in a timely manner. The manufacture of advanced CMOS
semiconductor wafers is a highly complex process, and we have from time to time
experienced difficulties in obtaining acceptable yields and timely deliveries
from our suppliers. Good production yields are particularly important to our
business, including our ability to meet customers' demand for products and to
maintain profit margins. Wafer production yields are dependent on a wide variety
of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing
environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of personnel
and equipment. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have experienced
and expect to experience production yield problems from time to time.
Difficulties in production yields can often occur when we begin production of
new products or transition to new processes. These difficulties can potentially
result in significantly higher costs and lower product availability. For
example, in the second quarter of 1999, difficulties with a vendor's
manufacturing process limited the availability of packaging material (piece
parts) used in certain of our new and proprietary FineLine BGA(TM), or ball-grid
array, packages causing limited production. This in turn limited shipments of
our new FLEX 10KE product family. Our management expects to continue to
introduce new and established products using new process technologies, and we
may encounter similar start-up difficulties during the transition to such
process technologies.

Further, production throughput times vary considerably among our wafer
suppliers, and we may experience delays from time to time in processing some of
our products which also may result in higher costs and lower product
availability. We expect that, as is customary in the semiconductor business, in
order to maintain or enhance our competitive position, we will continue to
convert our fabrication process arrangements to larger wafer sizes, smaller
circuit geometries and more advanced process technologies. Such conversions
entail inherent technological risks that can adversely affect yields, costs and
delivery lead time. In addition, if for any reason we were required to seek
alternative sources of supply, shipments could be delayed significantly while
such sources are qualified for volume production, and any significant delay
could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.

Testing and Assembly:

After wafer manufacturing is completed, each wafer is tested using a variety of
test and handling equipment. Such wafer testing is accomplished at Sharp, TSMC
and our San Jose pilot line facility, which is used primarily for new product
development. This testing is performed on equipment owned by us and consigned to
the vendors.

Resulting wafers are shipped to various Asian assembly suppliers, where good die
are separated into individual chips that are then encapsulated in ceramic or
plastic packages. As is the case with our wafer supply business, we employ a
number of independent suppliers for assembly purposes. This enables us to take
advantage of subcontractor high volume manufacturing, related cost savings,
speed and supply flexibility. It also provides us with timely access to
cost-effective advanced process and package technologies. We purchase almost all
of our assembly services from AMKOR (Korea and the Philippines), ASAT (Hong
Kong), ASE (Malaysia) and Fujitsu (Japan).

Following assembly, each of the packaged units receives final testing, marking
and inspection prior to shipment to customers. We obtain almost all of our final
test and back-end operation services from AMKOR, ASAT and ASE. Final testing by
these assembly suppliers is



                                        6
<PAGE>   7

accomplished through the use of our proprietary test software and hardware,
which is consigned to or owned by such suppliers and/or third-party commercial
testers. These suppliers also handle shipment of the products to our customers
or distributors.

Additionally, almost all of the manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging
of our development system hardware products are performed by outside
contractors. Although our wafer fabrication, assembly and other subcontractors
have not recently experienced any serious work stoppages, the economic, social
and political situations in countries where certain subcontractors are located
are unpredictable and can be volatile. Any prolonged work stoppages or other
inability to manufacture and assemble our products would have a material adverse
effect on our operating results. Furthermore, the risks of earthquakes or power
shortages and economic risks, such as extreme currency fluctuations, adverse
changes in tax laws, tariff or freight rates or interruptions in air
transportation, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.

BACKLOG

Our backlog of released orders as of December 31, 2000 was approximately $510.8
million as compared to approximately $309.4 million at December 31, 1999. Our
backlog consists of original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customer-released
orders that are requested for delivery within the next six months and
distributor orders that are requested for delivery within the next three months.
We produce standard products that may be shipped from inventory within a short
time after receipt of an order. Our business has been characterized by a high
percentage of orders with near-term delivery schedules. At times, due to high
demand and supply constraints in certain products, lead times can lengthen,
causing an increase in backlog. However, orders constituting our current backlog
are cancelable without significant penalty at the option of the purchaser,
thereby decreasing backlog during periods of lower demand. In addition,
distributor shipments are subject to price adjustments, and we defer recognition
of revenue on shipments to distributors until the product is resold to the end
customer. Historically, backlog has been a poor predictor of future customer
demand. For all of these reasons, backlog as of any particular date should not
be used as a predictor of sales for any future period.

Effective January 1, 2001, our policy for determining backlog will change from a
six-month period for OEM customer-release orders to a three-month period. We do
not expect that this change will have a material effect on our backlog, as our
distributor orders accounted for over 98% of our backlog as of December 31,
2000.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our total research and development activities have focused primarily on
general-purpose programmable logic devices and on the associated development
software and hardware. We have developed these related products in parallel to
provide software support to customers upon device introduction. As a result of
our research and development efforts, we have introduced a number of new PLD
families, such as the FLEX 10KE, FLEX 10KA, MAX 3000A, MAX 7000A, MAX 7000B,
APEX 20K, APEX 20KE, APEX 20KC and ACEX 1K device families. We have also
redesigned a number of our products to accommodate their manufacture on new
wafer fabrication processes. In 2001, we also released the Quartus II
development tool, which is our fourth-generation software. Additionally, we
typically release new versions of our proprietary software on a quarterly basis.

Our research and development expenditures were $178.7 million in 2000, $86.1
million in 1999 and $59.9 million in 1998. Excluding a $6.3 million one-time
charge for acquired in-process research and development, our research and
development expenditures in 2000 were $172.4 million. We have not capitalized
research and development or software costs to date. We intend to continue to
spend substantial amounts on research and development in order to continue to
develop new products and achieve market acceptance for such products,
particularly in light of the industry pattern of short product life cycles and
increasing competition within the CMOS logic market. Even if such goals are
accomplished, we cannot assure you that these products will achieve significant
market acceptance. If we are unable to successfully define, develop and
introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our
future operating results would be adversely affected.

PATENTS AND LICENSES

We own numerous United States patents and have additional pending United States
patent applications on our semiconductor products. Although our patents and
patent applications may have value in discouraging competitive entry into our
market segment, we cannot assure you that any valuable new patents will be
granted to us, or that our patents will provide meaningful protection from
competition. We believe that our future success will depend primarily upon the
technical competence and creative skills of our personnel, rather than on our
patents, licenses, or other proprietary rights.

We have in the past incurred, and in the future may continue to incur,
litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights against third
parties. We cannot assure you that any such litigation would be successful or
that our patents would be upheld if challenged.



                                        7
<PAGE>   8

In the normal course of business, we from time to time receive and make
inquiries with respect to possible patent infringements. As a result of
inquiries received from third parties, it may be necessary or desirable for us
to obtain licenses relating to one or more of our current or future products. We
cannot assure you that such licenses could be obtained, and, if obtainable,
could be obtained on conditions which would not have a material adverse effect
on our operating results. In addition, if patent litigation ensued, we cannot
assure you that these third parties would not succeed in obtaining significant
monetary damages or an injunction against the manufacture and sale of one or
more of our product families.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Our directors and executive officers and their ages are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             NAME                  AGE                     POSITION
             ----                  ---                     --------
<S>                                <C>      <C>
Rodney Smith .................      60      Chairman of the Board of Directors

John P. Daane ................      37      President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

C. Wendell Bergere ...........      55      Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Denis Berlan .................      50      Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer

Erik Cleage ..................      40      Senior Vice President, Marketing

John R. Fitzhenry ............      51      Vice President, Human Resources

Michael Jacobs ...............      41      Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales

Lance M. Lissner .............      51      Senior Vice President, Business Development

Nathan Sarkisian .............      42      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Charles M. Clough(1) .........      72      Director

Michael A. Ellison(2)(3) .....      55      Director

Paul Newhagen (1) ............      51      Director

Robert W. Reed(3) ............      54      Director and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors

Deborah D. Rieman ............      51      Director

William E. Terry(1)(2) .......      67      Director
</TABLE>

----------

(1)     Member of Nominating Committee.

(2)     Member of Compensation Committee.

(3)     Member of Audit Committee.

All directors hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until
their successors have been elected and qualified. There are no family
relationships between any of our directors or executive officers.

RODNEY SMITH has served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors since joining
us in November 1983 and as our President and Chief Executive Officer from
November 1983 to November 2000. Prior to November 1983, he held various
management positions with Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, a semiconductor
manufacturer.

JOHN P. DAANE has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since
November 2000 and as one of our directors since December 2000. Prior to joining
us, Mr. Daane spent 15 years at LSI Logic Corporation, a semiconductor
manufacturer, most recently as Executive Vice President, Communications Products
Group.

C. WENDELL BERGERE joined us in August 1995 as Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary. From 1993 to 1995, Mr. Bergere was Special Counsel at the law
firm of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton. From 1982 to 1993, he was Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary of The Perkin-Elmer Corporation, a
producer of analytical and life science systems.

DENIS M. BERLAN joined us in December 1989 as Vice President, Product
Engineering and was named Vice President, Operations and Product Engineering in
October 1994. In January 1996, he was named Vice President, Operations. In
January 1997, he was named Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
He was previously employed by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD, a
semiconductor manufacturer, and by Lattice Semiconductor Corporation, a
semiconductor manufacturer, in engineering management capacities.



                                        8
<PAGE>   9

ERIK CLEAGE joined us as International Marketing Manager in February 1986. He
became Director, Japan and Asia Pacific Sales in April 1989, was appointed Vice
President, Marketing in August 1990 and Senior Vice President, Marketing in
January 1999. Previously, he was employed by AMD and Fairchild in various
positions.

JOHN R. FITZHENRY joined us in May 1995 as Vice President, Human Resources. From
February 1983 to May 1995, he was employed by Apple Computer, Inc., a
manufacturer of personal computers, in various human resource management
positions.

MICHAEL JACOBS joined us in January 2000 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide
Sales. From April 1997 to January 2000, Mr. Jacobs was Vice President, North
American Sales at Analog Devices, Inc., a semiconductor manufacturer, and from
December 1985 to April 1997, he held various management positions at National
Semiconductor Corporation, a semiconductor manufacturer.

LANCE M. LISSNER joined us in May 1998 as Vice President of Business Development
and Investor Relations and was appointed Senior Vice President, Business
Development in November 2000. Prior to that time, Mr. Lissner was a corporate
officer of Measurex Corporation, a developer of computer-integrated measurement,
control and information systems, where he was employed since 1973 and held
various positions in sales, marketing, engineering, and business development.

NATHAN SARKISIAN joined us in June 1992 as Corporate Controller. He was
appointed Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in August 1995 and
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 1998. Prior to
joining us, Mr. Sarkisian held various accounting and financial positions at
Fairchild and at Schlumberger Limited, an oil field services company.

CHARLES M. CLOUGH has served as one of our directors since August 1997. In
August 1997, Mr. Clough retired from his position as Chairman of the Board of
Directors of Wyle Electronics, a distributor of semiconductor products and
computer systems. From 1982 to 1997, Mr. Clough held various management
positions at Wyle Electronics, including President, Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman. Wyle Electronics was one of our authorized distributors in the United
States prior to its acquisition by Arrow. Prior to joining Wyle Electronics, he
had spent 27 years with Texas Instruments holding a number of management and
executive positions relating to semiconductor operations, including the head of
Bipolar operations, European Semiconductor group and worldwide marketing.

MICHAEL A. ELLISON has served as one of our directors since April 1984 and has
been a private venture capital investor since November 2000. From October 1994
to October 2000, Mr. Ellison was the Chief Executive Officer of Steller, Inc., a
distributor of electronic parts. From January 1982 to December 1992, he was a
General Partner of Cable & Howse Ventures, a venture capital investment firm.

PAUL NEWHAGEN, one of our co-founders, has served as one of our directors since
July 1987. In March 1998, Mr. Newhagen retired from his position as our Vice
President, Administration, a position he had held since December 1994. From June
1993 to November 1994, he served as a consultant to us. From 1983 to 1993, Mr.
Newhagen held various management positions with us, including Vice President of
Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary.

ROBERT W. REED has served as one of our directors since October 1994 and as our
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2001. In 1996, Mr. Reed
retired from his position as Senior Vice President of Intel Corporation, a
semiconductor manufacturer. From 1983 to 1991, Mr. Reed was Intel's Chief
Financial Officer.

DEBORAH D. RIEMAN, PH.D., has served as one of our directors since May 1996. Dr.
Rieman currently manages a private investment fund and consults to technology
start-up companies. From July 1995 to May 1999, Dr. Rieman was the President and
Chief Executive Officer of CheckPoint Software Technologies, Inc., an Internet
security software company. Prior to joining CheckPoint, Dr. Rieman held various
executive and marketing positions with Adobe Systems Inc., a computer software
company, Sun Microsystems Inc., a computer networking company, and Xerox Corp.,
a diversified electronics manufacturer. Dr. Rieman also serves as a director of
Corning Inc. and Alchemedia Corp.

WILLIAM E. TERRY has served as one of our directors since August 1994. Mr. Terry
is a former director and Executive Vice President of the Hewlett-Packard
Company, a diversified electronics manufacturing company. In 36 years at
Hewlett-Packard, he held a number of senior management positions, including
general manager of Hewlett-Packard's Data Products and Instrument Groups, and
subsequently had overall responsibility for the Measurement Systems Sector. He
retired from Hewlett-Packard in November 1993. Mr. Terry also serves as a
director of Key Tronic Corporation.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2000, we had 1,947 regular employees. Our success is
dependent in large part upon the continued service of our key management,
technical, sales and support employees and on our ability to continue to attract
and retain additional qualified employees. The competition for such employees is
intense and the loss of key employees could have an adverse effect on us.
