Item 1. Business. 

Founded in 1983 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1997, Altera Corporation designs, manufactures, and markets (1) high-performance, high-density programmable logic devices, or PLDs; (2) pre-defined design building blocks known as intellectual property, or IP, cores; and (3) associated development tools. Our PLDs, which consist of field-programmable gate arrays, or FPGAs, and complex programmable logic devices, or CPLDs, are semiconductor integrated circuits that are manufactured as standard chips that our customers program to perform desired logic functions within their electronic systems. Our customers can license IP cores from us for implementation of standard functions in their PLD designs. Customers develop, compile, verify, and program their PLD designs using our proprietary development software, which operates on personal computers and engineering workstations. 

We were one of the first suppliers of complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, PLDs and are currently a global leader in this market. Today, we offer a broad range of PLDs that offer unique features as well as differing densities and performance specifications. Our products serve a wide range of markets, including telecommunications, data communications, computing and storage, consumer, and industrial applications. Some of our major products are more fully described below. 

Our headquarters facility is located at 101 Innovation Drive, San Jose, California 95134, and our website is www.altera.com. Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “ALTR.” 

Integrated Circuit and ASIC Overview 

Three principal types of digital integrated circuits are used in most electronic systems: (1) processors, (2) memory, and (3) logic. 

   
  •  Processors, which include microprocessors, microcontrollers, and digital signal processors, or DSPs, are typically used for control and central computing tasks;  
  
  •  Memory is used to store programming instructions and data; and  
  
  •  Logic is typically used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system.  


While system designers employ a relatively small number of standard architectures to meet their processor and memory needs, they require a wide variety of logic circuits to differentiate their end products. In addition, competitive pressures force 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

customers to reduce the size of their products and accelerate their products’ introduction to market. At the same time, as new technologies evolve, customers require even more logic complexity on a single chip for improved functionality, performance, reliability, and cost. 
The majority of the CMOS logic market is made up of application-specific integrated circuits, or ASICs. The ASIC segment of the CMOS logic market is comprised of (1) programmable logic, (2) gate arrays, and (3) cell-based integrated circuits, also referred to as standard cells. In a broad sense, all of these devices are competitive with each other as they generally may be used in the same types of applications in electronic systems. However, differences in cost, performance, density, flexibility, ease of use, and time to market dictate the extent to which they may be directly competitive for particular applications. 

A primary advantage of programmable logic over gate arrays and standard cells is that it allows for shorter design cycles, meeting customers’ needs for quick time to market. In contrast to gate array and standard cell users, PLD users program their design directly into the PLD and can have custom chips that are fully functioning and verified at the time the design is completed. As a result of user programmability, PLD customers may experiment and revise their designs in a relatively short amount of time and with minimum development cost. The time-to-market advantage of PLDs is complemented by the added benefit of field upgradeability, which generally enables PLD users to modify the PLD design after the customer’s electronic system has been shipped. 

Due to their programmability, however, PLDs generally have a larger die size and associated higher per-unit cost when compared to standard cells and gate arrays, which are customized during manufacturing at the chip fabrication facility and hence have a fixed function. While the customized manufacturing of standard cells and gate arrays can result in more optimized chip performance and lower per-unit cost than PLDs, it typically requires higher up-front costs and longer manufacturing lead times. 

Historically, due to their lower per-unit costs, standard cells and gate arrays have been viewed as more cost effective than PLDs for large-volume, low-cost applications such as consumer electronics. Consequently, the unit volume of a PLD design is typically lower than that for a standard cell or gate array design. Additionally, some customers may choose to prototype with PLDs for initial engineering development and then re-design to a standard cell in volume production for lower per-unit cost. While such re-designs have always been an aspect of the PLD business, we believe that the following factors are driving electronic systems manufacturers to use PLDs for their systems’ entire life cycle: (1) the continual reduction in the price premium of programmable logic; (2) the ever-shortening product life cycle of many electronic systems; and (3) the use of more advanced chip manufacturing technology, which elevates the non-recurring engineering cost and risk of standard cells. 

We believe that the adoption of more advanced chip manufacturing technology, which is increasing the total cost of chip development, is reducing the cost advantage of standard cells and gate arrays. The cost and time for us to develop a PLD is comparable to the cost and time for others to develop a gate array or standard cell. Since each of our PLDs is sold to hundreds or thousands of customers, we spread development costs across our wide customer base. In contrast, gate array and standard cell suppliers build fixed, custom chips for a single customer for use in a single application, thus imposing a high up-front cost on the customer. These costs increase as chip manufacturing technology advances and becomes more complex. Consequently, we believe that this factor is driving more applications toward the use of PLDs rather than standard cells and gate arrays despite the higher per-unit cost of PLDs. 

Strategy and Competition 

We believe that competitive pressures to improve chip functionality, performance, reliability, and cost are driving customers increasingly towards system-on-a-programmable-chip, or SOPC, solutions. We define a SOPC solution to be a high-density PLD containing three or more of the following: (1) logic, (2) memory, (3) high-speed input/output, or I/O, and (4) a processor. With SOPC solutions, system designers require less, if any, separate microprocessor or memory chips, thereby allowing them to reduce the size and cost of their systems. User programmability satisfies the need for custom circuitry and rapid changes, thereby enhancing time to market. 

In order to capture a larger percentage of our customer’s bill of materials for semiconductors, we are focused on providing the most advanced SOPC solutions. To accomplish this goal, we strive to offer our customers: 


   
  •  PLDs with the speed, density, functionality, and package types to meet their specific needs;  


3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

   
  •  HardCopyTM devices that enable our customers to move from a PLD to a low-cost, custom implementation of their designs;  
  
  •  Optimized, pre-verified system-level IP cores to speed their design process;  
  
  •  State-of-the-art development tools that offer low cost and ease of use and compatibility with other industry-standard electronic design automation, or EDA, tools; and  
  
  •  A complete customer support system.  


We experience significant direct competition from other companies that are in the programmable logic sub-segment, including Xilinx, Inc. and Lattice Semiconductor Corporation. We expect that as the dollar volume of the programmable logic sub-segment grows, the attractiveness of this sub-segment to larger competitors will continue to increase. 

Principal competitive factors in the programmable logic sub-segment include: 

   
  •  The capability of software development tools and IP cores;  
  
  •  Device performance and features;  
  
  •  Quality and reliability;  
  
  •  Pricing and availability;  
  
  •  Technical service and customer support; and  
  
  •  Technical innovation.  


We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors and that our proprietary device architecture and our installed base of software development systems may provide some competitive advantage. We have been able to introduce new product families that, as compared to their predecessors, provide greater functionality at a lower price for any given density because of unique architectural innovation and advanced technologies. 

We also believe that in certain circumstances these new product families compete favorably against ASICs as well as against other types of chips such as microcontrollers, microprocessors, and DSPs. The functionality offered by these other types of chips can be implemented in PLDs using pre-built and pre-verified IP cores. An IP core is typically offered in either a “hard” or “soft” form. A hard IP core is embedded into the silicon of our chips. A soft IP core is a design file that our customers can license for integration into their overall PLD design. By incorporating more functionality and logic capacity on a programmable fabric while providing the necessary design tools and IP cores to design a reliable system, we believe we can build upon the advantages of PLDs over competing solutions. 

As is true of the semiconductor industry as a whole, the ASIC segment and the PLD sub-segment are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, rapid rates of product obsolescence, and price erosion. All of these factors may influence our future operating results. For a discussion of risk factors associated with our strategy and competition, see Item 7—Risk Factors—“Our financial results depend on our ability to compete successfully in the highly competitive semiconductor industry” and “Our future success depends on our ability to define, develop, and sell new products that achieve market acceptance.” 

Products 

Our products consist primarily of devices, IP cores, and proprietary development tools. Altogether, these products form a comprehensive solution for the implementation of SOPC applications. A brief overview of these products follows. 

Devices 

Our devices fall into the following four categories: (1) FPGAs, (2) CPLDs, (3) low-cost, masked devices, and (4) configuration devices, which store the programming code for our FPGAs. These devices span multiple architectures and device families, with a total of more than 1,000 product options. Each device family offers unique functional benefits and differing density and performance specifications for implementing particular applications. 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

FPGAs 

Our FPGAs consist of general-purpose FPGAs and embedded IP-based FPGAs. 

General-Purpose FPGAs 

Our general-purpose FPGA products, consisting of our StratixTM, CycloneTM, APEXTM II, APEX, FLEX®, and ACEX® product families, are built using the most advanced CMOS static random access memory, or SRAM, process technology and address a broad range of applications in telecommunications, data communications, computing and storage, consumer, and industrial markets. The basic logic building block in a general-purpose FPGA is the logic element. With more logic elements, an FPGA can support more logic circuitry. In addition to the number of logic elements, the amount of embedded RAM within general-purpose FPGAs is also important in user device selection. Our general-purpose FPGAs currently provide up to 79,040 logic elements and up to 7 megabits of RAM in a single device, while offering competitive logic core and I/O performance levels. 

Some of our major general-purpose FPGAs are more fully described below: 

STRATIX: The Stratix architecture was publicly announced in February 2002 and shipments commenced in May 2002. Based on a 1.5-V, 0.13-micron process, the Stratix device family (1) provides a high-bandwidth architecture that enables block-based design methodology for enhanced time to market, (2) is presently available in densities ranging from 10,570 to 79,040 logic elements, (3) includes up to 7 megabits of embedded RAM, and (4) contains all-layer-copper interconnect technology, which results in greater performance compared to traditional aluminum/ tungsten interconnect. Our Stratix devices are also the first FPGAs to contain embedded DSP capability and various sizes of embedded memory blocks. Embedded DSP blocks provide fast performance for applications such as encryption and filtering in wireless communications, image processing in digital entertainment, and quality of service algorithms in data communications. Stratix devices support a wide array of high-speed, standard interfaces allowing Stratix devices to be suitable for applications including high-bandwidth routers and switches, semiconductor testers, medical imaging, and advanced data storage systems. 

CYCLONE: The Cyclone architecture was announced in September 2002 and devices began shipping in December 2002. Cyclone devices are built on a cost-optimized, all-copper 1.5-V, 0.13-micron process, and offer powerful functionality at a low cost. With up to 20,060 logic elements and 288 kilobits of RAM, Cyclone devices can integrate many complex functions. The combination of a low-cost structure with abundant device resources makes Cyclone devices ideal for high-volume applications in areas such as digital set-top boxes, DVD player/ recorder systems, automotive telematics, and plasma displays. 

APEX II: Utilizing a second-generation APEX architecture, the APEX II device family is designed to address the increasing performance and bandwidth requirements of a wide range of applications. These devices are built on 1.8-V, 0.13-micron and 0.15-micron processes and include all-layer-copper interconnect technology. They range in density from 16,640 to 67,200 logic elements and include over 1.0 megabit of embedded RAM. 

APEX 20K, APEX 20KE, and APEX 20KC: Based on the APEX architecture, the 2.5-V APEX 20K, 1.8-V APEX 20KE, and 1.8-V APEX 20KC device families provide design flexibility and efficiency for high-performance SOPC applications. The APEX 20KC family utilizes copper for all layers of metal interconnect. Devices in these families (1) range in density from 1,200 to 51,840 logic elements, (2) include up to 432 kilobits of embedded RAM, and (3) utilize an embedded system block, or ESB, to embed content addressable memory, or CAM, used in packet switching. Additionally, these devices contain enhanced phase-locked loops, or PLLs, for high-speed clock management, and LVDS. 

FLEX 10K, FLEX 10KA, and FLEX 10KE: Based on the FLEX 10K architecture, which was the first PLD architecture to provide on-chip embedded memory, the 5.0-V FLEX 10K, 3.3-V FLEX 10KA, and 2.5-V FLEX 10KE device families offer embedded array blocks, or EABs, to provide a combination of logic and embedded RAM on a single-chip architecture for high-speed, high-bandwidth applications. These families range in density from 576 to 12,160 logic elements and include up to 96 kilobits of embedded RAM. 

ACEX 1K: Our ACEX 1K device family, which combines logic elements and EABs, offers complete system-level integration on a single device for cost-sensitive, volume-driven applications such as cable modems, xDSL modems, low-cost switches, and routers. Devices in this family range in density from 576 to 4,992 logic elements, include up to 48 kilobits of embedded RAM, and operate at a 2.5-V supply voltage. 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Embedded IP-Based FPGAs 

As a complement to our general-purpose FPGAs, our embedded IP-based FPGAs combine a general-purpose FPGA architecture with embedded IP cores. Together, these two elements comprise a fully integrated and flexible, customizable solution for use in targeted applications. Our embedded IP-based FPGAs consist of our ExcaliburTM devices, which are well-suited for applications requiring high-performance embedded microprocessors, and our Stratix GX and MercuryTM devices, which are best employed in applications that need embedded transceiver capability for ultra high-speed data transfer. 

Our embedded IP-based FPGAs are more fully described below: 

EXCALIBUR EMBEDDED PROCESSOR SOLUTIONS: Our Excalibur solutions combine logic, memory, and an embedded processor core, which together allow engineers to integrate an entire system on a single PLD for a wide range of applications, from 3G base stations, embedded routers, microcontrollers, and network processors to industrial control and factory automation. The Excalibur solutions consist of two embedded processor architectures: (1) our Nios® soft core embedded processor solution and (2) the ARM®-based embedded processor solution. The Nios soft core utilizes a reduced instruction set computing, or RISC, architecture and is a cost-competitive and flexible alternative to discrete microcontroller solutions. The Nios soft core can be efficiently implemented in all of our general-purpose FPGA devices as well as in our IP-based FPGA products. The ARM-based embedded processor PLD family uses technology licensed from ARM Limited and consists of multiple devices that each contains an ARM-based RISC processor core. These ARM-based Excalibur devices provide our customers with enhanced integration and royalty-free technology access for applications requiring the capability and complexity of an ARM processor while also needing the flexibility and customization of a general-purpose FPGA. 

STRATIX GX: The Stratix GX device family combines 3.125 Gbps per channel transceiver technology with our Stratix FPGA architecture. Announced in November 2002 with initial shipments to customers in January 2003, Stratix GX devices are built on a 1.5-V, 0.13-micron, all-layer-copper SRAM process and contain up to 20 transceiver channels, offering system architects in the broad marketplace—anywhere from communications to high-end consumer electronics to mass storage systems—a low-risk path to 3.125 Gbps transceiver capability. Stratix GX devices are ideal for implementing common interface protocols including proprietary systems that require data rates up to 3.125 Gbps, while providing lower power per channel than competing solutions. Devices in this family range in density from 10,570 to 41,250 logic elements and contain up to 3 megabits of RAM. 

MERCURY: Our first IP-based FPGAs aimed at high-speed serial-interface applications, Mercury devices address a wide range of serial backplane, chip-to-chip, and line-side applications. Providing speeds of up to 1.25 Gbps per channel, these devices integrate a high-speed clock data recovery-enabled transceiver with a performance-optimized programmable logic core. Devices in this family range in density from 4,800 to 14,400 logic elements and include up to 112 kilobits of embedded RAM. 

CPLDs 

Our CPLD products, consisting of our MAX® and ClassicTM product families, are built using CMOS floating-gate process technology and address a wide range of high-speed glue logic functions found in a broad range of electronics equipment in the telecommunications, data communications, computing and storage, consumer, and industrial markets. Glue logic is basic logic that enables the interaction of multiple subsystem components. The basic logic building block in a general-purpose CPLD is the macrocell. Therefore, the total number of macrocells within CPLDs is often used to gauge relative logic density. Another critical metric used in gauging CPLD performance is the total propagation delay, or tPD, from an input pin to an output pin. Our MAX CPLDs provide over 500 macrocells in a single device with tPD specifications as fast as 3.5 nanoseconds. 

Some of our major CPLDs are more fully described below: 

MAX 7000, MAX 7000S, MAX 7000A, and MAX 7000B: The 5.0-V MAX 7000, 5.0-V MAX 7000S, 3.3-V MAX 7000A, and 2.5-V MAX 7000B device families are among the most widely used programmable logic families in the industry. These device families provide high-density, high-speed, I/O-intensive programmable logic solutions for a broad range of glue logic applications, including state machines, control functions, and address decoding. Devices in these families range in density from 32 to 512 macrocells and provide tPD values as fast as 3.5 nanoseconds. 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

MAX 3000A: The 3.3-V MAX 3000A low cost devices, which range in density from 32 to 512 macrocells, target high-volume, low-cost glue logic applications. 

Masked Devices 

The per-unit price of high-density FPGAs traditionally makes them suitable only as a development and prototyping tool for our customers. Our HardCopy family, described below, offers customers with a conversion path from a high-density FPGA to a non-FPGA production device. 

HARDCOPY: For our highest-density FPGA products, our HardCopy devices combine proprietary silicon design and an automated process to offer our customers a seamless migration path to a mask-programmed implementation of their designs for low-cost and high-volume applications. As a result, HardCopy devices extend the flexibility, power, and time-to-market advantages of high-density FPGAs to high-volume, more cost-sensitive applications traditionally covered by standard cells and gate arrays. HardCopy devices offer up to a 70% die size reduction, resulting in a lower cost for customers seeking a high-volume production solution in our highest density FPGAs. 

Intellectual Property Cores 

IP cores are pre-verified building blocks for implementing standard system-level functions within a PLD design. Soft IP cores available for use in our devices consist of MegaCore® functions, which we license to our customers, and Altera Megafunction Partners Program, or AMPPSM, cores, which are licensed to our customers by third parties. With IP cores, system designers can focus more time and energy on improving and differentiating the unique aspects of their system design, rather than spending time designing common off-the-shelf functions from the ground up. As a result, IP cores are essential to providing our customers SOPC solutions that enable higher levels of integration and faster time to market. Today, we offer a broad range of soft IP cores for various system blocks for DSP algorithms, bus interfaces, memory controllers, telecommunications, data communications, microprocessors, and peripherals. Prior to licensing a soft IP core, customers may download an encrypted soft IP core from our web site and verify that it works in their own system design. While licensing soft IP cores represents a small portion of our total revenues, we believe our investment in this area enhances our competitive position relative to other ASIC suppliers as well as PLD suppliers. 

Development Tools 

Our proprietary development tools, consisting primarily of the Quartus® II and MAX+PLUS® II software, enable our customers to successfully complete all necessary PLD design steps. Our tools enhance engineering productivity by facilitating design entry, design compilation, design verification, and device programming during the initial design and subsequent design revisions. 

Our development tools can be used on a variety of computer platforms and have built-in interfaces with other engineering design software, thus making it possible for customers to utilize their existing design environment. Our Quartus II and MAX+PLUS II software development tools run under the Microsoft Windows and UNIX (including Solaris, HP-UX, and Linux) operating environments. Our development tools also provide interfaces to many industry-standard EDA tools, including those offered by Mentor Graphics Corporation, Synplicity, Inc., and Synopsys, Inc. 

Like soft IP cores, our licensing of development tools represents a small portion of our total revenues, but provides a critical and necessary element of our market strategy, and can drive our success in competing for design wins against other ASIC suppliers as well as PLD suppliers. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development activities have focused primarily on PLDs and on the associated development software and hardware. We have developed these related products in parallel to provide software support to customers upon device introduction. As a result of our research and development efforts, we have introduced during the past three years a number of new families, such as the Stratix, Stratix GX, Cyclone, APEX II, and HardCopy device families, the Excalibur embedded processor solutions, and the Quartus II development platform. We have also redesigned a number of our products to accommodate new wafer fabrication processes. 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Our research and development expenditures were $182.8 million in 2002, $170.9 million in 2001, and $178.7 million in 2000. Excluding a $6.3 million one-time charge for acquired in-process research and development, our research and development expenditures in 2000 were $172.4 million. We have not capitalized research and development or software costs to date. We intend to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development in order to continue to develop new products and achieve market acceptance for such products, particularly in light of the industry pattern of short product life cycles and increasing competition within the CMOS logic market. 

Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses 

We generally rely on intellectual property law, including patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in products and technology. As of December 31, 2002, we held a total of 587 issued United States patents and 140 patents issued in other countries relating to various aspects of our products and technology; we also have a number of patent applications currently pending. Also, we have used, registered, and applied to register certain trademarks and service marks to distinguish our products, technologies, and services from those of our competitors in the United States and foreign countries. In addition, we file registrations in the United States under the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act to protect our chip designs. Finally, we have entered into technology licensing agreements that give us rights to design, manufacture, and package products using certain intellectual property owned by others. In July 2001, we entered into a settlement agreement with Xilinx under which we settled all pending litigation with Xilinx. As part of the settlement agreement, we entered into a royalty-free patent cross license agreement with Xilinx, including a prohibition of further patent litigation between the two companies through July 2006. In connection with the settlement agreement, we paid Xilinx a one-time payment of $20 million. Similarly, in July 2001 we entered into a settlement agreement with Lattice under which we settled all pending patent litigation with Lattice. As part of the settlement agreement, we entered into a royalty-free patent cross license agreement with Lattice, including a multi-year prohibition of further patent litigation between the two companies. No payments were made by Altera or Lattice as part of the settlement. 

When necessary, we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights. Although we believe that protection afforded by our intellectual property rights has value, the rapidly changing technology in the semiconductor industry makes our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on our patent, trademark, or other proprietary rights. For a discussion of risk factors associated with our patents, trademarks, and licenses, see Item 3, Item 7—Risk Factors—“Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful protection from our competitors” and “We may face significant costs arising from intellectual property litigation,” and Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Marketing and Sales 

We market our products worldwide through a network of distributors and direct sales personnel. In the United States and Canada, we also rely on a network of independent sales representatives. From time to time, we may add or remove independent sales representatives or distributors from our selling organization as we deem appropriate to the level of business. 

Throughout the United States, we have domestic sales offices in major metropolitan areas. Our direct sales personnel and independent sales representatives focus on strategic and key accounts. Distributors generally focus selling activities on the broad base of small- and medium-size customers and provide warehousing and logistics services to all of our customers. Our primary distributor in the United States is Arrow Electronics, Inc., which is responsible for creating customer demand from its customer base, providing technical support and other value-added services, filling customers’ orders, and stocking our products. 

Our international business is supported by a network of distributors in major European countries, Japan, and various countries throughout Asia Pacific. In addition, we maintain international sales support offices in the metropolitan areas of Bangalore, Beijing, Helsinki, Hong Kong, London, Munich, Ottawa, Paris, Seoul, Shanghai, Stockholm, Stuttgart, Taipei, Tokyo, and Turin. 

Through 2002, all international sales were denominated in U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2002, worldwide sales through distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, or their subcontract manufacturers accounted for over 95% of total sales. In 2002, 2001, and 2000, two distributors accounted for more than 10% of sales. Arrow was, and continues to be, our largest distributor. Arrow on a worldwide basis accounted for 53% of sales in 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

2002, 54% of sales in 2001, and 58% of sales in 2000. Altima Corporation accounted for 14% of sales in 2002, 13% of sales in 2001, and 11% of sales in 2000. No single end customer accounted for more than 10% of our sales in 2002, 2001, or 2000. International sales constituted 60% of sales in 2002, 55% of sales in 2001, and 43% of sales in 2000. 
For a detailed description of our sales by geographic region, see Item 7 and Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of the risk factors associated with our foreign operations, see Item 7—Risk Factors—“We depend on international sales for a majority of our total sales” and “Our business is subject to tax risks associated with being a multinational corporation.” 

Backlog 

Our backlog consists of OEM orders and distributor orders that are each requested for delivery within the next three months. Our backlog of orders on December 31, 2002 was approximately $183.3 million compared to $119.6 million on December 31, 2001. The increase in backlog is attributable to an increase in sales, together with an increase in advance orders made by our distributors and OEMs. 

Historically, backlog has been a poor predictor of future customer demand. While our backlog can increase during periods of high demand and supply constraints, our orders are generally cancelable without significant penalty at the option of the purchaser. Further, we defer recognition of revenue on shipments to distributors until the product is resold. For all of these reasons, backlog as of any particular date should not be used as a reliable predictor of sales for any future period. 

Customer Support 

Customer support and service are important aspects of selling and marketing our products. We provide several levels of technical user support, including applications assistance, design services, and customer training. Also, our applications engineering staff publishes data sheets and application notes, conducts technical seminars, and provides design assistance via the Internet and electronic links to the customer. Finally, as a service to our customers, inventory is maintained by us and our distributors to meet their short-term delivery needs for our products. 

Manufacturing 

Wafer Supply 

We do not directly manufacture our silicon wafers. Instead, our silicon wafers are produced using various semiconductor foundries. This enables us to take advantage of these suppliers’ high-volume economies of scale and also gives us direct and more timely access to advancing process technology. We purchase nearly all of our silicon wafers from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, and the remaining portion from Sharp Corporation. In the past, we have used other foundry vendors, and we may establish additional foundry relationships as such arrangements become economically useful or technically necessary. For a discussion of risk factors associated with our wafer supply arrangements, see Item 7—Risk Factors—“We depend entirely on independent subcontractors to supply us with finished silicon wafers” and “Conditions outside the control of our independent subcontractors may impact their business operations.” 

Testing and Assembly 

After wafer manufacturing is completed, each wafer is tested using a variety of test and handling equipment. Such wafer testing is accomplished at TSMC, Sharp, and our San Jose pilot line facility, which is used primarily for new product development. This testing is performed on equipment owned by us and consigned to our vendors. 

Resulting wafers are then shipped to various assembly suppliers in Asia, where good die are separated into individual chips that are then encapsulated in packages. We employ a number of independent suppliers for assembly purposes. This enables us to take advantage of these subcontractors’ high-volume economies of scale, supply flexibility, and gives us direct and more timely access to advancing packaging technology. We purchase almost all of our assembly services from Amkor Electronics, Inc. in Korea and the Philippines, ASAT Limited in Hong Kong, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., or ASE, in Malaysia and Taiwan, and Fujitsu Microelectronics, Inc. in Japan. 

Following assembly, each of the packaged units receives final testing, marking, and inspection prior to shipment to customers. We obtain almost all of our final test and back-end operation services from Amkor, ASAT, and ASE. Final 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

testing by these assembly suppliers is accomplished through the use of our proprietary test software and hardware, which is consigned to or owned by such suppliers and/or third-party commercial testers. On our behalf, these suppliers also warehouse and ship our products to our OEMs and distributors. 
For a discussion of risk factors associated with our testing and assembly arrangements, see Item 7—Risk Factors—“We depend on independent subcontractors, located primarily in Asia, to assembly and test our semiconductor products” and “Conditions outside the control of our independent subcontractors may impact their business operations.” 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Our executive officers and their ages are as follows: 

              
Name  Age  Position 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
John P. Daane      39     President and Chief Executive Officer  
Denis M. Berlan      53     Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer  
Erik R. Cleage      42     Senior Vice President, Marketing  
John R. Fitzhenry      53     Vice President, Human Resources  
Lance M. Lissner      53     Senior Vice President, Business Development  
George A. Papa      54     Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales  
Jordan S. Plofsky      42     Senior Vice President, Applications Business Groups  
Nathan M. Sarkisian      44     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
Katherine E. Schuelke      40     Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary  

There are no family relationships among our executive officers or between any executive officer and any of our directors. 

John P. Daane has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since November 2000 and as one of our directors since December 2000. Prior to joining us, Mr. Daane spent 15 years at LSI Logic Corporation, a semiconductor manufacturer, most recently as Executive Vice President, Communications Products Group, with responsibility for ASIC technology development and the Computer, Consumer, and Communications divisions. Mr. Daane earned his bachelors degree from the University of California, Berkeley in 1986. 

Denis M. Berlan joined us in December 1989 as Vice President, Product Engineering and was named Vice President, Operations and Product Engineering in October 1994. In January 1996, he was named Vice President, Operations. In January 1997, he was named Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. He was previously employed by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD, a semiconductor manufacturer, and by Lattice Semiconductor Corporation, a semiconductor manufacturer, in engineering management capacities. Mr. Berlan received his M.S.E.E. in 1972 and Ph.D. in 1977 from the University of Grenoble in France and an M.B.A. in 1987 from the University of Santa Clara. 

Erik R. Cleage joined us as International Marketing Manager in February 1986. He became Director, Japan and Asia Pacific Sales in April 1989, was appointed Vice President, Marketing in August 1990 and Senior Vice President, Marketing in January 1999. Previously, he was employed by AMD and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, a semiconductor manufacturer, in various positions. Mr. Cleage earned his bachelors degree from Stanford University in 1981. 

John R. Fitzhenry joined us in May 1995 as Vice President, Human Resources. From February 1983 to May 1995, he was employed by Apple Computer, Inc., a manufacturer of personal computers, in various human resource management positions. Mr. Fitzhenry earned his bachelors degree from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1971 and his J.D. from the University of the Pacific, McGeorge School of Law in 1976. 

Lance M. Lissner joined us in May 1998 as Vice President of Business Development and Investor Relations and was appointed Senior Vice President, Business Development in November 2000. Prior to that time, Mr. Lissner was a corporate officer of Measurex Corporation, a developer of computer-integrated measurement, control, and information systems, where he was employed since 1973 and held various positions in sales, marketing, engineering, and business development. Mr. Lissner earned his bachelors degree from Harvey Mudd College in 1972 and his masters degree from Stanford University in 1973. 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

George A. Papa joined us in February 2002 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales. From February 2000 to February 2002, Mr. Papa served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales of the Communications Business Group of Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., a semiconductor company. From March 1997 to February 2000, he served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales for Level One Communications, Inc., a subsidiary of Intel Corporation, a semiconductor company. From February 1991 to March 1997, Mr. Papa served as Vice President of North American Sales for Siemens Corporation, a diversified global technology company. Mr. Papa earned his bachelors degree from Northeastern University in 1971. 

Jordan S. Plofsky joined us in February 2001 as Senior Vice President, Vertical Markets and Embedded Processor Products and became Senior Vice President, Applications Business Groups in March 2002. Prior to joining us, Mr. Plofsky was employed by LSI Logic from October 1996 to February 2001, most recently as Executive Vice President, Enterprise Infrastructure Group from November 2000 to February 2001 and Vice President and General Manager, Networking Products Division from June 1998 to November 2000. Mr. Plofsky earned a bachelors degree from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign in 1982. 

Nathan M. Sarkisian joined us in June 1992 as Corporate Controller. He was appointed Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in August 1995 and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 1998. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sarkisian held various accounting and financial positions at Fairchild and at Schlumberger Limited, an oil field services company. Mr. Sarkisian earned a bachelors degree from Stanford University in 1981 and an M.B.A. from Harvard University in 1992. 

Katherine E. Schuelke joined us in March 1996 as Corporate Attorney. She became Senior Corporate Attorney in July 1997 and Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary in July 1999. In October 2001, she was appointed Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to March 1996, Ms. Schuelke was an attorney at the law firm of Morrison & Foerster LLP for seven years. Ms. Schuelke earned a bachelors degree from the State University of New York at Buffalo in 1986 and a J.D. from New York University in 1989. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2002, we had 1,882 regular employees. Of these employees, 1,218 were located in the United States, and 664 were employed in 17 other countries. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we believe that our employee relations are good. 

Additional Information 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at www.altera.com, when such reports are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission website. 
