Item 1: Business

Organized in 1967, Applied develops, manufactures, markets and services semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment and related spare parts for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Customers for these products include semiconductor wafer manufacturers and semiconductor integrated circuit (or chip) manufacturers, who either use the chips they manufacture in their own products or sell them to other companies. These chips are key components in most advanced electronic products for the Internet, communications, computers and digital devices. 

Most chips are built on a base of silicon, called a wafer, and include multiple layers of wiring that connect a variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other structures. As the density of the circuit components is increased to enable smaller chips and greater computing power, the complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating the formation of smaller structures and more intricate wiring schemes. To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit components are first created on the surface of the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and remove selected film layers. Similar processes are then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. A typical, simplified process sequence for building the wiring portion of new copper-based chips involves initially depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer of circuit components using a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) system. An etch system is then used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To form the metal wiring, these openings and patterns are subsequently filled with copper material using physical vapor deposition (PVD) and electroplating technologies. A chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) step then polishes the wafer to maintain a flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP steps are then performed to build up the layers of wiring needed to complete the interconnection of the circuit elements to form the chip. Advanced chip designs require well over 300 individual process steps to complete the manufacturing of the wafer, and many of these processes are performed multiple times. 

Applied operates in a single industry segment for the manufacture, marketing and servicing of semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment. Applied currently manufactures systems that perform most of the primary steps in the chip fabrication process, including: CVD, PVD, electroplating, etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing (RTP), CMP, metrology and wafer/reticle inspection. Applied's subsidiary, AKT, Inc. (AKT), manufactures CVD systems used to make flat panel displays (FPDs) that are used in notebook computers, desktop monitors, televisions and other applications. Applied's subsidiary, Etec Systems, Inc. (Etec), is a leading manufacturer of systems used to generate circuit patterns on reticles used in the photolithography process. Applied also provides manufacturing facility (fab) management software to the semiconductor industry. 

Most of Applied's products are single-wafer systems designed with two or more process chambers attached to a base platform. The platform feeds a wafer to each chamber, allowing the simultaneous processing of several wafers to enable high manufacturing productivity and precise control of the process. Applied sells most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems based on four main platforms: the Centura®, the Endura®, the Endura SL™ and the Producer®. These platforms currently support CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies. 

Throughout its history, the semiconductor industry has migrated to increasingly larger wafer sizes, from one-inch wafers to the 200mm (eight inches) standard predominant today. To gain the economic advantages of a larger surface area, the industry has begun using 300mm (12 inches) wafers as the next wafer size. The surface area of a 300mm wafer is more than two times that of a 200mm wafer. New hardware is needed to process 300mm wafers, although some "bridge tools" have dual 200mm-300mm capabilities. Applied has developed and launched a comprehensive line of systems for 300mm wafer processing for all of its core technologies, supporting more than 90 process applications. These new systems encompass almost 75 percent of the processes needed to fabricate advanced 0.13 micron and beyond devices on the wafer, including deposition, etch, RTP, CMP, ion implantation and inspection technologies. 

Products 

The following summarizes Applied's portfolio of process technologies, most of which are available for both 200mm and 300mm wafer processing.

Deposition 
Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During deposition, a layer of either dielectric (material used as insulation between conductors) or electrically conductive (material used to carry current) film is deposited or grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to perform the three main types of deposition: CVD, PVD and electroplating. Applied also offers certain types of dielectric deposition processes using its RTP systems. 

Chemical Vapor Deposition
CVD is used by chipmakers to deposit dielectric films (insulators) and metal films (conductors) on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k (highly efficient insulating materials), high k (electrical charge storing materials), aluminum, titanium, titanium nitride, tantalum pentoxide, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and technologies: 

Producer - The Producer CVD platforms feature Twin-Chamber™ modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer platform, giving it a maximum processing capacity of six wafers at a time for high-throughput manufacturing. Many of Applied's dielectric CVD film processes can be performed on this platform. In June 2001, Applied introduced its Producer SE system, which features advanced productivity for a wide range of dielectric CVD applications. The Producer platform also features integrated metrology technology that automatically measures the thickness and uniformity of the deposited film. By mid-fiscal 2001, over 350 Producer systems had been shipped to customers worldwide.

Ultima HDP-CVD™ Centura - High-density plasma CVD (HDP-CVD) is used to fill very small, deep spaces with dielectric film. One of the processes offered on the system is fluorinated silicate glass (FSG), a material that has better insulating capability than conventional oxide materials. These types of films are referred to as low dielectric constant (low k) materials. These low k films enable faster chip performance. A number of major customers have been using FSG deposition for manufacturing, making it the first low k dielectric film to be used for production chipmaking. The new Ultima X system, launched in May 2001, incorporates several new technology advances that extend the Ultima's process applications to 100 nanometer (100nm or 0.10 micron) and below chipmaking. 

Other Low k Dielectric Films - Throughout fiscal 2001, Applied accelerated its programs for developing dielectric films with lower k values to complement the trend of using copper material for even faster chip speeds. Applied has introduced several low k dielectric materials using its established CVD technologies. Black Diamond™, a silicon-based low k dielectric film launched in fiscal 1999, is designed for copper-based interconnect structures. A second low k dielectric, called BLOk™ (Barrier Low k), provides a low k solution for critical barrier layers in semiconductor devices, enabling the complete, multi-layer dielectric chip structure to benefit from low k technology. 

High k Dielectric Films - In fiscal 2000, Applied introduced the Giga-Cap™ TanOx™ Centura for the deposition of high k tantalum pentoxide films. The system, which integrates CVD and RTP technologies, is used to fabricate capacitor structures in advanced memory chips.

Epitaxial Deposition - Epitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi), used in some semiconductor devices, is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuitry. Applied has manufactured epitaxial deposition systems for over 30 years. In fiscal 2000, Applied introduced its latest model, the Epi xP™ Centura, that integrates pre- and post-epi processes on the system to reduce total epi production costs. In addition to silicon applications, Applied offers an Epi Centura system for silicon-germanium (SiGe) epi process technology, which can reduce power usage and increase speed in certain kinds of advanced chips. 

Polysilicon Deposition - Polysilicon is a type of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure within the semiconductor device. Applied's latest system, introduced in fiscal 2000, is the PolyGen™ Centura, a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures with improved productivity and process control. A variant of the system, the Polycide Centura, combines chambers for polysilicon and tungsten silicide deposition on the Centura platform in an integrated process to create the polycide structures found in advanced semiconductors. To address the challenging requirements of 0.15 micron and below devices, Applied has combined its RTP and polysilicon technologies on one system called the Gate Stack Centura. This single-system integration of polysilicon with advanced RTP oxidation and nitridation technology provides superior film quality and material properties, as well as improved process control. Integrating these technologies on one high-productivity system lets customers use fewer process steps and reduce cycle time for their gate fabrication sequence. The process control provided by the single-wafer approach is superior to batch processing, and is expected to become increasingly important as transistor structures shrink to smaller dimensions and as chipmakers move to larger wafer diameters. 

Silicon Nitride Deposition - Applied offers a single-wafer, high-temperature system to deposit silicon nitride films, called the SiNgen™ Centura. This system operates at a lower deposition temperature than conventional methods to minimize the amount of time the wafer is exposed to high temperatures and to reduce particles while improving many areas of operating cost and productivity in critical transistor nitride layers for sub-0.18 micron devices.

Tungsten Deposition - Tungsten is the basic material used to connect the multiple layers of metal wiring on a chip. For many years, Applied has been a leading provider of systems to deposit tungsten. In fiscal 2001, Applied launched the Sprint™ Plus Centura to fill the tight geometries required in 100nm generation chip designs. In addition, Applied introduced an ALD (Atomic Layer Deposition) chamber that can be integrated with the Sprint Plus system for depositing tungsten and titanium-based films.

Physical Vapor Deposition 
PVD, also called sputtering, is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated at a metal target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer. The Endura PVD platform offers a broad range of advanced deposition processes, including aluminum, titanium/titanium nitride (Ti/TiN), tantalum/tantalum nitride and copper (Cu). This platform passed its 2,000th system shipment by the end of fiscal 2000. The Endura's highly flexible, multi-chamber architecture allows the integration of multiple PVD processes or combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies on the same system. The Endura's PVD Ti technology can be coupled with either CVD TiN or PVD TiN processes to form the critical lining layers of interconnect structures. These structures are subsequently bulk-filled with tungsten, aluminum or other film materials. A new, high-throughput version of the Endura platform, called Endura SL, was introduced in fiscal 2000 for applications benefiting from its efficient wafer handling and greater operational flexibility. A new technology for depositing critical barrier/seed films in copper-based devices and liner/barrier films in aluminum-based chips, called SIP™ (self-ionized plasma), was introduced in early fiscal 2001 to extend PVD to smaller geometries. 

Systems for Copper-Based Devices - A majority of process steps used in chipmaking are performed to build the interconnect, a complex matrix of microscopic wires that carry electrical signals to connect the transistor and capacitor components of the chip. Chipmakers are beginning to shift from using aluminum as the main conducting material for the interconnect circuitry to copper, which has lower resistance than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area. 

Applied is a leading supplier of systems for copper-based chipmaking, with systems that perform deposition of the barrier and seed layers (Endura Electra Cu® Barrier & Seed), copper bulk-fill by electroplating (Electra Cu ECP), and copper planarization by CMP (Mirra Mesa™). In addition, Applied makes a full line of systems for depositing and etching the dielectric layers used in the copper interconnect and for inspection and metrology.

The Endura Electra Cu Barrier & Seed system, launched in fiscal 1998, is widely used by chipmakers for fabricating copper-based chips. Using PVD technology, the system sequentially deposits the critical layers that prevent copper material from entering other areas of the device and prime the structure for subsequent deposition of bulk copper material by electroplating. This year, Applied announced the industry's first CVD titanium silicon nitride (TiSiN) process for the Endura system, enabling high-performance barrier films for sub-100nm device generations.

Electroplating
Electroplating is a process by which metal atoms are removed from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) and deposited on the surface of an object immersed in the electrolyte. Its main application is to deposit copper in circuit wiring structures following the deposition of barrier and seed layers.

Launched in April 1999, the Electra Cu ECP (ElectroChemical Plating) was Applied's first system to use electroplating technology. The Electra Cu ECP system offers the first completely automated ECP chemical management technology to the industry and provides process control and productivity not available in manually controlled systems. The Electra Cu ECP's high-throughput system architecture features two twin-cell modules that allow the simultaneous processing of four wafers. In fiscal 2000, Applied introduced the industry's first integrated ECP system, combining copper deposition with critical heat treatment and wafer edge clean processes on a single platform. 

Etch
Etching is used many times throughout the semiconductor manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist, and is exposed to a circuit pattern during a photolithography process step that projects the circuit pattern onto the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by the photoresist pattern. 

Applied offers systems for etching three basic types of materials: metal, silicon and dielectric films. Applied extended an established etch technology, called magnetically enhanced reactive ion etch, into the 0.18 to 0.13 micron generation where it operates with high productivity and low cost of ownership in high-volume production environments. The Dielectric Etch eMax™ Centura was introduced in fiscal 2000 as an extension of Applied's MxP+ and Super e™ dielectric process chamber designs. 

For etching advanced conducting films, Applied launched its latest generations of DPS systems in fiscal 2001, the Metal Etch DPS™ II and Silicon Etch DPS™ II Centura systems, offering customers the technology, productivity and reliability required for 100nm and below processing. Applied also introduced a new system, the Silicon Etch HART™, for etching very small and deep structures. The Transforma™ etch patterning system combines silicon etch technology with new optical critical dimension metrology capability to enable chipmakers to improve process control, device yield and overall fab cycle time. 

Ion Implantation
During ion implantation, silicon wafers are bombarded by a high-velocity beam of ions, called dopants, that penetrate (or implant) the film surface to a desired depth. Implantation occurs in the transistor structure and changes the properties of the material in which the dopants are implanted to achieve a particular electrical performance. 

Fiscal 2001 saw the acceleration of an industry trend toward low-energy implantation, which enables the fabrication of smaller structures and thus contributes to faster transistor performance. Applied's industry-leading low-energy implantation technology, featuring the Quantum™ LEAP (low-energy advanced processing) system, has gained major acceptance by many chipmakers to create thinner, more advanced transistor structures. 

In early fiscal 2001, Applied launched an ion implantation system, called Swift®, that combines the functions of two traditional implant technologies - high-energy and medium current - in one system. This system introduces several advances in doping accuracy and wafer positioning that will be required for devices as they approach the 100nm generation. With the Swift system, Applied has broadened its product line to include virtually every ion implant application for advanced chip production. 

Rapid Thermal Processing
RTP subjects a wafer to a very brief burst of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. RTP, used mainly for modifying the properties of deposited films, activates dopant atoms in the device after implantation by using processes such as annealing. Applied's RTP systems, which include the RTP Xeplus™ and Radiance™ Centura products, offer advances in temperature and ramp rate control as well as other features aimed at providing leading-edge capability for sub-0.15 micron generations. These single-wafer systems have also gained increasing acceptance for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition steps that have traditionally been assigned to furnaces. This trend to single-wafer processing versus batch furnaces is expected to continue as the industry transitions to larger 300mm wafers. 

Chemical Mechanical Polishing
CMP removes material from a wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface. This allows subsequent photolithography patterning steps to take place with greater accuracy and enables film layers to build up with minimal height variations. CMP is performed primarily in the interconnect structure of the chip, where it is used multiple times, and is especially crucial to fabricating copper-based chips to define the circuit wires that create the interconnect. Applied entered the CMP market in 1995 with its Mirra® system and has since added several important features to this product, including integrated film measurement and inspection capabilities. In fiscal 1999, the Mirra Mesa was introduced to provide customers with integrated cleaning technology. By mid-fiscal 2001, Applied had shipped its 1,000th CMP system, including over 100 systems for polishing copper.

Metrology and Wafer/Reticle Inspection
Applied produces several types of products that are used to inspect the wafer during various stages of the fabrication process. Applied also supplies an inspection system to photomask manufacturers that is used to detect defects on quartz plates, called reticles or masks. These reticles are used by photolithography systems to transfer microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. The reticle must be defect-free with perfect image fidelity because any imperfection will be replicated on the wafer.

Critical Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)
Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to form images of microscopic features of a semiconductor wafer at extremely high magnification. Applied provides chipmakers with operator-free automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring advanced-generation feature sizes. Introduced in fiscal 1999, the VeraSEM™ extends CD-SEM technology beyond critical dimension measurement to also enable the monitoring of multiple process parameters. In fiscal 2000, Applied introduced the VeraSEM 3D, which enables users to perform three-dimensional imaging of chip features down to 0.10 micron and achieves greater efficiency. 

DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (i.e., particles, scratches or residues) that are first located by other detection systems and then classify the defects to identify their source. The high-throughput, fully automatic technology of Applied's SEMVision™ DR-SEM enables customers to use DR-SEM technology as an integral part of their production lines, rather than using it off-line to occasionally sample wafers. Over 100 SEMVision systems had been shipped to customers by early fiscal 2001.

Wafer Inspection 
Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on patterned wafers (wafers with circuit images printed on them) as they move between processing steps. Defects may include particles, open circuit lines, shorts between lines or other problems. In July 2000, Applied introduced Compass™, the industry's first system to detect critical defects in devices with design rules as small as 0.10 micron and below at the high speeds required for chipmakers' volume production lines. A second system, called Excite™, was also introduced for monitoring the condition of process tools. The system identifies particle excursions right after processing, reducing the need for costly monitoring of wafers and increasing overall fab efficiency.

Reticle Inspection
The ARIS-100i™ system is an automated, ultraviolet wavelength-based advanced inspection system for reticles used in 0.18 micron and below generation devices. The system features enhanced image acquisition technology, data handling capabilities and sensitivity for the most advanced mask designs.

Flat Panel Displays 
The most advanced FPDs are manufactured using technologies similar to those for making semiconductors. One difference is the vastly larger area of the substrate (panel). Compared to today's largest wafers (300mm diameter), the panels can be up to 15 times larger. Applied began development of FPD process technology in 1990, beginning with a CVD process. In fiscal 2000, AKT introduced several new systems and technology capabilities. The AKT 5500 CVD system and AKT 10K CVD systems expanded its product line to include systems for larger substrate sizes, including the one square meter Generation 5 size represented by the 10K system. In addition, a new CVD process was introduced to enable the manufacture of polysilicon-based screens used in next-generation communications applications. 

Factory Management Software
The Consilium WorkStream™ and FAB300™ products are designed for semiconductor and FPD manufacturers to control and optimize their facility operations. In fiscal 2000, FAB300 version 2.0 was announced, a wafer fab management software package specifically designed to meet the requirements of 300mm wafer production. The FAB300 2.0 product integrates a full complement of operating modules, enabling chipmakers to easily manage 300mm wafer movement and equipment operation in a single, fully automated, fab-wide solution. 

Mask Pattern Generation Systems
Mask pattern generation systems use precision lasers or electron beams to write (or pattern) each layer of a semiconductor chip's design onto a piece of chrome-coated quartz glass. Introduced in 2001, the advanced MEBES® eXara™ is an electron-beam system for leading-edge maskmaking. The latest ALTA® 4000, a laser beam system launched in 2001, provides mainstream, high-throughput production capability. A new system was introduced in fiscal 2001 for etching photomasks, the Tetra™ Photomask Etch system. This product uses dry etch technology to fabricate the most advanced photomasks, which are required for 100nm and below chipmaking.

Customer Service and Support

Applied's customer service organization plays a critical role in Applied's ability to continuously satisfy its customers' production requirements. Approximately 4,000 highly trained customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually located at or near the customers' fab sites and service approximately 17,000 Applied systems. 

In fiscal 1999, Applied introduced a new line of service products, called Total Service Solutions™ (TSS), that offers an innovative approach to maintaining and servicing Applied's equipment in the fab. In one aspect of the TSS program, called Total Parts Management® (TPM), Applied is responsible for the spare parts used in its equipment at a customer's fab site. Under TPM, chipmakers no longer need to own or manage inventory for their Applied systems. A second product, called Total Support Package® (TSP), is a comprehensive equipment service solution that includes parts inventory management and maintenance, with operating cost reduction and system performance improvement guarantees for their Applied equipment. Launched in 2001, SparesSolutions™ is an on-line customer support application that provides a simple, fast and cost-effective way for customers to obtain spare parts for their Applied systems.

Backlog

Applied's backlog decreased from $4.4 billion at October 29, 2000 to $2.7 billion at October 28, 2001. Backlog adjustments for fiscal 2001 included cancellations of $882 million and currency and other adjustments of $229 million, partially offset by a positive adjustment of $571 million to reinstate backlog for revenue that will be recognized in future periods due to the implementation of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." For further details regarding the implementation of SAB 101, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Applied schedules production of its systems based on order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders for which written authorizations have been accepted, shipment dates within 12 months have been assigned and revenue has not been recognized. However, customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without sufficient notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, Applied's backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and/or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applied's business and results of operations.

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies

Applied's manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems, with pilot manufacturing principally located in Santa Clara, California and volume manufacturing in Austin, Texas. Applied also has manufacturing operations in Hayward, California; Hillsboro, Oregon; Horsham, England and Rehovot, Israel. Production requires some raw materials and a wide variety of mechanical and electrical components to be manufactured to Applied's specifications. Applied uses numerous domestic and international vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, "parts") for the manufacture and support of its products. Applied has embarked on a strategy of increasing the value-add of subassembly suppliers in the manufacture of many of its new products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible; accordingly, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied has sought, and will continue to seek, to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by: 1) selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts; 2) monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers; and 3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. If Applied does not receive a sufficient quantity of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner to meet its production requirements, Applied's results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.

Research, Development and Engineering 

Applied's long-term growth strategy requires continued development of new semiconductor and FPD manufacturing products. Applied's significant investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Engineering organizations are located in the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel and Japan, with process support and customer demonstration laboratories in the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel, Japan and Taiwan.

Applied invested $740 million (14.5 percent of net sales) for fiscal 1999, $1.1 billion (11.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000 and $1.2 billion (16.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001 in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to improve or sustain existing product lines. Applied has spent an average of 14.2 percent of net sales on RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs in software, automation control systems, materials research and environmental control that have applications to its products. Key activities during fiscal 2001 included development of wafer fabrication equipment for smaller chip feature sizes, copper-based devices and 300mm wafers. Applied also continued the development of its Process Module™ concept, the integration of multiple individual systems with metrology and inspection capabilities and specialized software for feedforward/feedback process control. These systems operate as a single, highly automated unit to perform a particular wafer processing application in a customer's manufacturing process to a specified level of performance. Applied expects this concept to save customers critical process development and facility start-up time, enabling them to bring new chip technologies to market more quickly.

Marketing and Sales

Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells its products worldwide through a direct sales force. For fiscal 2001, net sales as a percent of Applied's total net sales to customers in each region were: North America (primarily the United States) 29 percent, Japan 26 percent, Taiwan 15 percent, Europe 15 percent, Asia-Pacific 9 percent and Korea 6 percent. Applied's business is usually not seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical based on the capital equipment investment patterns of major semiconductor manufacturers. These expenditure patterns are based on many factors, including anticipated market demand for integrated circuits, the development of new technologies and global and regional economic conditions.

Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long-lived assets attributable to Applied's geographic regions is included in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For fiscal 1999 and fiscal 2001, Intel Corporation accounted for more than 10 percent of Applied's net sales. For fiscal 2000, no individual customer accounted for more than 10 percent of Applied's net sales. 

Competition

The global semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and is characterized by increasingly rapid technological advancements and demanding worldwide service requirements. Applied's ability to compete depends on its ability to commercialize its technology and continually improve its products, processes and services, as well as its ability to develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors for succeeding in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment market include the equipment's technical capability, productivity and cost-effectiveness, overall reliability, ease of use and maintenance, contamination and defect control, and the level of technical service and support provided by the vendor. The importance of each of these factors varies depending on the specific customer's needs and criteria, including considerations such as the customer's process application, product requirements, timing of the purchase and particular circumstances of the purchasing decision. The pace of technological change is rapid, with customers continually moving to smaller critical dimensions and larger wafer sizes and adopting new materials for use in semiconductor manufacturing. Sometimes, existing technology can be adapted to the new requirements; however, the new requirements sometimes create the need for an entirely new technical approach. The rapid pace of technological change continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups, and can quickly diminish the value of existing technologies.

Substantial competition exists for each of Applied's products. Competitors range from small companies that compete with a single innovative product to companies with a large and diverse line of semiconductor processing products. Competitors in a given technology tend to have different degrees of market presence in the various regional markets. Management believes that Applied is a strong competitor and that Applied's competitive position is based on the ability of its products and services to continue to address customer requirements. Success for Applied will require a continued high level of investment in RD&E and in sales and marketing. However, new products, rapid changes in technology and other competitive actions from both new and existing competitors could materially and adversely affect Applied's market position.

Patents and Licenses

Management believes that Applied's competitive position is significantly dependent upon skills in engineering, production and marketing, rather than just on its patent position. However, protection of Applied's technology assets by obtaining and enforcing patents is important. Therefore, Applied has a program to file patent applications in the U.S. and other countries for inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new developments in its equipment and processes. In addition to patents, Applied also possesses other proprietary intellectual property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and copyrights.

Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when management determines that it is in Applied's best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed to Applied for the life of the patents. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from third parties have not been, and are not expected to be, material.

In the normal course of business, Applied from time to time receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms. Although there can be no assurance about the outcome of existing patent infringement inquiries, Applied believes it is unlikely that their resolution will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

Environmental Matters

Two of Applied's locations have been designated as environmental cleanup sites since 1987. The United States Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations, in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named Applied as a "Responsible Party." Cleanup activities have been underway at this site since 1984. The California Regional Water Quality Control Board has designated Applied as a "Discharger" with respect to the other site in Sunnyvale, California. Applied was named a Discharger at the Sunnyvale site because it currently owns the site in question, although prior owners and operators are being required to perform cleanup and monitoring activities. Applied has also been cited by local authorities for instances of noncompliance with local and/or state environmental laws, and in each such instance, those allegations have been resolved. Neither compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating discharge of materials into the environment, nor remedial agreements or other actions relating to the environment, has had, or is expected to have, a material effect on Applied's capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position.

Employees

At October 28, 2001, Applied employed 17,365 regular employees. On December 12, 2001, Applied announced a headcount reduction of approximately 1,700 positions, or 10 percent of its global workforce, in response to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor industry. At December 23, 2001, Applied employed 16,263 regular employees. In the high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon on its continued ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. None of Applied's employees are represented by a trade union, and management considers its relations with employees to be good.
