Item 1: Business

Organized in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, develops, manufactures, markets and services semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Customers for these products include semiconductor wafer manufacturers and semiconductor integrated circuit (or chip) manufacturers, who either use the chips they manufacture in their own products or sell them to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. 

Most chips are built on a silicon wafer base and include a variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple layers of wiring (interconnects). As the density of the circuit components is increased to enable greater computing power in the same or smaller area, the complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating the formation of smaller structures and more intricate wiring schemes. To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit components are first created on the surface of the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and remove selected film layers. Similar processes are then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. A typical, simplified process sequence for building the wiring portion of copper-based chips involves initially depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer of circuit components using a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) system. An etch system is then used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To form the metal wiring, these openings and patterns are subsequently filled with conducting material using physical vapor deposition (PVD) and/or electroplating technologies. A chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) step then polishes the wafer to maintain a flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP steps are then performed to build up the layers of wiring needed to complete the interconnection of the circuit elements to form the chip. Advanced chip designs require about 500 steps involving these and other processes to complete the manufacturing of the wafer. 

Applied operates primarily in a single industry segment for the manufacture, marketing and servicing of semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment. Applied currently manufactures systems that perform most of the primary steps in the chip fabrication process, including: atomic layer deposition (ALD), CVD, PVD, electroplating, etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing (RTP), CMP, wafer wet cleaning, metrology and wafer inspection. Applied's subsidiary, AKT, Inc. (AKT), manufactures CVD systems used to make flat panel displays (FPDs) that are used in notebook computers, desktop monitors, televisions and other applications. Applied's subsidiary, Etec Systems, Inc. (Etec), is a leading manufacturer of systems used to generate, etch and inspect circuit patterns on reticles used in the photolithography process. Applied also provides manufacturing facility (fab) management software to the semiconductor industry, as well as services to enhance manufacturing yields. 

Most of Applied's products are single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to a base platform. The simultaneous processing of several wafers enables high manufacturing productivity and precise control of the process. Applied sells most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems based on three main platforms: the Centura®, the Endura® and the Producer®. These platforms currently support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies. 

Throughout its history, the semiconductor industry has migrated to increasingly larger wafers to build chips, from 25 millimeter (mm), or one-inch, wafers to 300mm, or 12-inch, wafers. The predominant size for capacity production today is 200mm, or eight-inch, wafers. To gain the economic advantages of a larger surface area, however, the industry has begun using 300mm wafers. Applied has developed and launched a comprehensive line of systems for 300mm wafer processing for all of its core technologies, supporting more than 90 process applications. These new systems encompass almost 75 percent of the processes needed to fabricate advanced 130 nanometer (nm) and below devices on the wafer, including deposition, etch, RTP, CMP, wafer wet cleaning, ion implantation and inspection technologies. 

Products 

The following summarizes Applied's portfolio of products and process technologies, most of which are available for both 200mm and 300mm wafer processing. 
Deposition 
Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During deposition, a layer of either dielectric (material used as insulation between conductors) or electrically conductive (material used to carry current, typically metals) film is deposited or grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to perform the four main types of deposition: ALD, CVD, PVD and electroplating. Applied also offers certain types of dielectric deposition processes using its RTP systems. 

Atomic Layer Deposition
ALD is an emerging technology in which single layers of atoms are used to build the chip. This technology enables chipmakers to deposit a very thin layer of either conducting or insulating material with uniform coverage on small, 65nm and below features. Applied offers ALD process chambers for depositing tungsten, titanium nitride (TiN) and tantulum nitride (TaN) films. In 2002, Applied introduced the Endura iCuB/S™ product, the industry's first system to integrate ALD and PVD chambers on a single platform for depositing the critical barrier and seed layers in copper interconnects. 

Chemical Vapor Deposition
CVD is used by chipmakers to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric (highly efficient insulating materials), high k dielectric (electrical charge storing materials), aluminum, titanium (Ti), TiN, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and technologies: 

Producer - The Producer CVD platforms feature Twin-Chamber™ modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer platform, giving it a maximum processing capacity of six wafers at a time for high-throughput manufacturing. Many of Applied's dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this platform. In 2002, Applied introduced Advanced Patterning Film™, an innovative CVD hardmask film deposited with the Producer system that enables chipmakers to fabricate sub-50nm transistor gates and contact structures using standard lithography. 

Ultima HDP-CVD® Centura - High-density plasma CVD (HDP-CVD) is used to fill very small, deep spaces with dielectric film. One of the processes offered on the system is fluorinated silicate glass (FSG), a film with higher insulating value than traditionally-used silicon dioxide material that enables faster chip performance. Applied's Ultima HDP-CVD Centura product is used by a number of major chipmakers for gap-fill applications, including the deposition of FSG in their advanced interconnect structures. 

Low k Dielectric Films - Throughout fiscal 2002, Applied continued its programs for developing dielectric films with low k values to complement the trend of using copper material for even faster chip speeds. Applied offers several low k dielectric materials using its established CVD technologies. Black Diamond™ , a silicon-based low k dielectric film is designed for copper-based interconnect structures. A second low k dielectric, called BLOk ™ (Barrier Low k ), provides a low k solution for critical barrier layers in semiconductor devices, enabling the complete, multi-layer dielectric chip structure to benefit from low k technology. 

Epitaxial Deposition - Epitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi), used in some semiconductor devices, is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuitry. Applied has manufactured epitaxial deposition systems for over 30 years. Applied's Epi Centura integrates pre- and post-epi processes on the system to reduce total epi production costs. In addition to silicon applications, Applied offers an Epi Centura system for silicon-germanium (SiGe) epi process technology, which can reduce power usage and increase speed in certain kinds of advanced chips. 

Polysilicon Deposition - Polysilicon is a type of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure within the semiconductor device. Applied's PolyGen™ Centura is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures with high productivity and process control. A variant of the system, the Polycide Centura, combines chambers for polysilicon and tungsten silicide deposition on the Centura platform in an integrated process to create transistor gate structures in memory chips. To address the challenging requirements of 130nm and below devices, Applied offers its RTP oxidation and polysilicon deposition technologies on one system called the Gate Stack Centura, which provides superior film quality, material properties and process control. 

Silicon Nitride Deposition - Applied offers a single-wafer, high-temperature system to deposit silicon nitride films, called the SiNgen™ Centura. This system minimizes the amount of time the wafer is exposed to high temperatures and reduces particles while improving many areas of operating cost and productivity in critical transistor nitride layers for sub-130nm devices. 

Tungsten Deposition - Tungsten is used to connect the multiple layers of wiring on aluminum-based chips. Applied's Sprint™ Plus Centura was the first system to provide integrated ALD and CVD technologies on the same platform for fabricating advanced tungsten contact structures. 

Physical Vapor Deposition 
PVD, also called sputtering, is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated at a metal target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer. The Endura PVD platform offers a broad range of advanced deposition processes, including aluminum, cobalt, Ti/TiN, Ta/TaN and copper (Cu). The Endura's highly flexible, multi-chamber architecture allows the integration of multiple PVD processes or combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies on the same system. In addition to the integrated iCuB/S (ALD TaN and PVD seed) system discussed in the Atomic Layer Deposition section, the Endura's PVD Ti technology can be combined with either CVD TiN, ALD TiN or PVD TiN processes to form the critical lining layers of interconnect structures. These structures are subsequently filled with tungsten, aluminum, copper or other film materials. Advanced SIP™ (self-ionized plasma) technology for depositing critical barrier/seed films in copper-based devices and liner/barrier films in aluminum-based chips extends PVD to sub-100nm geometries. 

Systems for Copper-Based Devices - A majority of process steps used in chipmaking are performed to build the interconnect, a complex matrix of microscopic wires that carry electrical signals to connect the transistor and capacitor components of a chip. Chipmakers are transitioning from using aluminum as the main conducting material for the interconnect to copper, which has lower resistance than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area. 

Applied is a leading supplier of systems for copper-based chipmaking, with products that perform deposition of the barrier and seed layers (Endura Electra Cu® Barrier & Seed), copper fill by electroplating (Electra Cu ECP), and copper planarization by CMP (Mirra Mesa™ system). In addition, Applied makes a full line of systems for depositing and etching the dielectric layers used in the copper interconnect and for inspection and metrology. 

The Endura Electra Cu Barrier & Seed system, launched in fiscal 1998, is widely used by chipmakers for fabricating copper-based chips. Using PVD technology, the system sequentially deposits the critical layers that prevent copper material from entering other areas of the device and prime the structure for subsequent deposition of bulk copper material by electroplating. 

Electroplating
Electroplating is a process by which metal atoms from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of an object immersed in the electrolyte. Its main application is to deposit copper in interconnect wiring structures following the deposition of barrier and seed layers. 

The Electra Cu ECP (electrochemical plating) system offers automated ECP chemical management technology, and its high-throughput system architecture allows the simultaneous processing of four wafers. The Electra Cu ECP product combines copper deposition with critical heat treatment and wafer edge clean processes on a single platform. 

Etch
Etching is used many times throughout the semiconductor manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist, and is exposed to a circuit pattern during a photolithography process step that projects the circuit pattern onto the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by the photoresist pattern. 

Applied offers systems for etching three basic types of materials: metal, silicon and dielectric films. For etching dielectric films, Applied introduced the Dielectric Etch eMax™ Entek™ Centura system in fiscal 2002. This system, an extension of Applied's eMax technology, etches low k dielectric materials found in high-performance copper-based chips. 

For etching advanced conducting films, Applied's Metal Etch DPS™ II and Silicon Etch DPS™ II Centura systems offer customers the technology, productivity and reliability required for 100nm and below processing. The Transforma™ etch patterning system combines silicon etch technology with new integrated metrology capability to enable chipmakers to improve process control, device yield and overall fab cycle time for building transistor gate structures. 

Ion Implantation
During ion implantation, silicon wafers are bombarded by a beam of ions, called dopants, that penetrate (or implant) the film surface to a desired depth. Implantation occurs in the transistor structure and changes the properties of the material in which the dopants are implanted to achieve a particular electrical performance. 

Low-energy implant technology enables the fabrication of smaller structures and contributes to faster transistor performance. Applied's Quantum™ LEAP (low-energy advanced processing) system enables chipmakers to create thinner, more advanced transistor structures. An enhanced-performance line of high-current implanters, the Quantum II, was introduced in 2002 for sub-100nm applications. 

Applied's Swift® system combines the functions of two traditional implant technologies - high-energy and medium current - in one system. This system introduces several advances in doping accuracy and wafer positioning required for the 100nm device generation. 

Rapid Thermal Processing
RTP subjects a wafer to a very brief burst of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. RTP is used mainly for modifying the properties of deposited films. Applied's RTP systems offer advances in temperature and ramp rate control as well as other features aimed at providing leading-edge capability for sub-130nm micron generations. These single-wafer systems are also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition steps that have traditionally been assigned to furnaces. This trend to single-wafer processing versus batch furnaces is expected to continue as the industry transitions to larger 300mm wafers. In 2002, Applied introduced the Radiance™ Vantage™ system, a new streamlined platform designed for high-volume 300mm manufacturing. 

Chemical Mechanical Polishing
CMP removes material from a wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface. This allows subsequent photolithography patterning steps to take place with greater accuracy and enables film layers to build up with minimal height variations. CMP is performed primarily in the interconnect structure of the chip, where it is used multiple times, and is crucial to fabricating copper-based chips to define the circuit wires that create the interconnect. Applied entered the CMP market in 1995 with its Mirra® system and has since added several important features to this product, including integrated film measurement and inspection capabilities. The Mirra Mesa system also provides customers with integrated cleaning technology. In 2002, Applied introduced a unique fixed abrasive technology on the Reflexion™ platform, enabling a slurry-free process that offers improved performance for certain polishing applications. 

Wafer Wet Cleaning
Applied entered the wafer wet cleaning market in fiscal 2002 with its Oasis Clean™ system, which uses single-wafer technology to clean wafers of contaminants. The Oasis Clean system utilizes proprietary megasonics technology with unique cleaning chemistry and system architecture to offer chipmakers improved cleaning performance and reduced operating costs over batch-type systems. 

Metrology and Wafer/Reticle Inspection
Applied produces several types of products that are used to inspect the wafer during various stages of the fabrication process. 

Critical Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)
Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to form images of microscopic features of a semiconductor wafer at extremely high magnification. Applied provides chipmakers with full automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring advanced-generation feature sizes. Introduced in fiscal 2002, the NanoSEM™ 3D system extends CD-SEM technology beyond the measurement of critical dimensions to enable the three-dimensional imaging of chip features to more precisely control their lithography and etch processes. 

DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (i.e., particles, scratches or residues) that are first located by other detection systems and then classify the defects to identify their source. Applied's high-throughput, fully automatic SEMVision™ G2 DR-SEM enables customers to use its technology as an integral part of their production lines to analyze defects as small as 80nm. 

Wafer Inspection 
Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on patterned wafers (wafers with circuit images printed on them) as they move between processing steps. Defects may include particles, open circuit lines, shorts between lines or other problems. Applied introduced the Compass™ Pro system in 2002 for detecting critical defects in devices with design rules as small as 100nm and below. The system operates with the high speed required for chipmakers' volume production lines, especially for copper-based chip manufacturing. 

Process Modules
Process modules are designed to link certain Applied equipment to provide customers with a qualified, integrated and optimized production process for building microstructures on advanced chips. Applied expects these products to save customers critical process development and facility start-up time, enabling them to bring new chip technologies to market more quickly. During fiscal 2002, Applied opened a 166,000 square foot facility in Sunnyvale, California, the Maydan Process Module Technology Center, to develop its Process Module™ products. 

Flat Panel Displays 
The most advanced FPDs are manufactured using technologies similar to those for making semiconductors. One difference is the vastly larger area of the substrate (panel). Compared to today's largest wafers (300mm diameter), the panels can be up to 15 times larger. Applied began development of FPD process technology in 1990, beginning with a CVD process. In fiscal 2002, AKT introduced its latest CVD system, the AKT 15K CVD, which addresses FPD fab requirements for substrates larger than one square meter. 

Maskmaking 
Mask pattern generation systems use precision lasers or electron beams to write (or pattern) each layer of a semiconductor chip's design onto a piece of chrome-coated quartz glass. Introduced in 2001, the advanced MEBES® eXara™ is an electron-beam system for leading-edge maskmaking. The latest ALTA® 4000, a laser beam system launched in 2001, provides mainstream, high-throughput production capability. 

A new system was introduced in fiscal 2001 for etching photomasks, the Tetra™ Photomask Etch system. This product uses dry etch technology to fabricate the most advanced photomasks for 100nm and below chipmaking. 

Applied also supplies an inspection system to photomask manufacturers that is used to detect defects on quartz plates, called masks. These masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since any imperfection will be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be defect-free with perfect image fidelity. The ARIS-100i™ system is an automated, ultraviolet wavelength-based advanced inspection system for masks used in 130nm and below generation devices. This system features enhanced image acquisition technology, data handling capabilities and sensitivity for advanced mask designs. 

Factory Management Software
Applied's WorkStream™ and FAB300™ products are designed for semiconductor and FPD manufacturers to control and optimize facility operations. FAB300 is a wafer fab management software package specifically designed to meet the requirements of a 300mm wafer production facility. It integrates a full complement of operating modules, enabling chipmakers to manage 300mm wafer movement and equipment operation in a single, fully automated, fab-wide solution. 

Customer Service and Support

Applied's customer service organization plays a critical role in Applied's ability to continuously satisfy its customers' production requirements. Approximately 3,700 trained customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually located at or near the customers' fab sites and service over 17,500 Applied systems. 

Applied's line of service products offers an innovative approach to maintaining and servicing Applied equipment in customers' fabs. With the Total Parts Management® (TPM) program, Applied offers an inventory management service for the spare parts used in its equipment at customers' fab sites. Under TPM, chipmakers no longer need to own or manage inventory for their Applied systems. A second product, called Total Support Package® (TSP), is a comprehensive equipment service solution that includes parts inventory management and maintenance with operating cost reduction and system performance improvement targets for their Applied equipment. SparesSolutions™ is an on-line customer support application that provides a simple, fast and cost-effective way for customers to obtain spare parts for their Applied systems. Launched in 2002, the Total Kit Management™ program provides customers with a convenient, cost-effective way to manage their systems' process kit service requirements. Applied also introduced in December 2002 its new Process Excursion Control™ service that combines automated data mining software with highly evolved data collection and analysis capabilities to locate and correct customers' critical yield production issues. In addition, Applied's customer service organization refurbishes, markets and sells previously used Applied systems. 

Backlog

Applied's backlog increased from $2.7 billion at October 28, 2001 to $3.2 billion at October 27, 2002. Applied schedules production of its systems based on order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders for which written authorizations have been accepted, shipment dates within 12 months have been assigned and revenue has not been recognized. In addition, backlog includes service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months. However, customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Backlog adjustments for fiscal 2002 included cancellations of $473 million and currency and other adjustments of $149 million. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, Applied's backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and/or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applied's business and results of operations. 

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies

Applied's manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems in Austin, Texas. Applied also has manufacturing operations in Santa Clara, California; Hayward, California; Hillsboro, Oregon; Horsham, England; and Rehovot, Israel. Production requires some raw materials and a wide variety of mechanical and electrical components to be manufactured to Applied's specifications. Applied uses numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, "parts") for the manufacture and support of its products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible; accordingly, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied has sought, and will continue to seek, to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by: 1) selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts; 2) monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers; and 3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. 

Research, Development and Engineering 

Applied's long-term growth strategy requires continued development of new manufacturing products. Applied's significant investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems and processes that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Engineering organizations are located in the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel and Japan, with process support and customer demonstration laboratories in the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel, Japan and Taiwan. 

Applied invested $1.1 billion (11.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000, $1.2 billion (16.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001 and $1.1 billion (20.8 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002 in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to create new product lines and improve existing technologies. Applied has spent an average of 15.3 percent of net sales on RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs in software, automation control systems, materials research and environmental control that have applications to its products. Key activities during fiscal 2002 included development of wafer fabrication equipment for smaller chip feature sizes, copper-based devices and 300mm wafers. 

Marketing and Sales

Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells its products worldwide through a direct sales force. For fiscal 2002, net sales to customers in each region as a percentage of Applied's total net sales were: North America (primarily the United States) 26 percent, Taiwan 24 percent, Japan 15 percent, Europe 13 percent, Asia-Pacific (including China) 13 percent and Korea nine percent. Applied's business is usually not seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical based on the capital equipment investment patterns of major semiconductor manufacturers. These expenditure patterns are based on many factors, including anticipated market demand for integrated circuits, the development of new technologies and global and regional economic conditions. 

Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long-lived assets attributable to Applied's geographic regions is included in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. No individual customer accounted for more than 10 percent of Applied's net sales for fiscal 2000. Intel Corporation accounted for 12.2 percent of Applied's net sales for fiscal 2001 and 10.1 percent of Applied's net sales for fiscal 2002. 

Competition

The global semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and is characterized by increasingly rapid technological advancements and demanding worldwide service requirements. Applied's ability to compete depends on its ability to commercialize its technology and continually improve its products, processes and services, as well as its ability to develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors for succeeding in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment market include the equipment's technical capability, productivity and cost-effectiveness, overall reliability, ease of use and maintenance, contamination and defect control, and the level of technical service and support provided by the vendor. The importance of each of these factors varies depending on the specific customer's needs and criteria, including considerations such as the customer's process application, product requirements, timing of the purchase and particular circumstances of the purchasing decision. The pace of technological change is rapid, with customers continually moving to smaller critical dimensions and larger wafer sizes and adopting new materials for use in semiconductor manufacturing. Sometimes, existing technology can be adapted to the new requirements; however, these requirements sometimes create the need for an entirely new technical approach. The rapid pace of technological change continually creates opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups, and can quickly diminish the value of existing technologies. 

Substantial competition exists for each of Applied's products. Competitors range from small companies that compete with a single innovative product to companies with a large and diverse line of semiconductor processing products. Competitors in a given technology tend to have different degrees of market presence in the various regional markets. Management believes that Applied is a strong competitor and that its competitive position is based on the ability of its products and services to continue to address customer requirements. Success for Applied will require a continued high level of investment in RD&E and in sales, marketing and customer support activities. 

Patents and Licenses

Management believes that Applied's competitive position is significantly dependent upon skills in engineering, manufacturing and marketing, and not just on its patent position. However, protection of Applied's technology assets by obtaining and enforcing patents is important. Therefore, Applied has a program to file patent applications in the U.S. and other countries for inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new developments in its equipment and processes. Applied does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent, although taken as a whole, the rights of Applied and the products made and sold under patents are a significant element of Applied's business. In addition to patents, Applied also possesses other proprietary intellectual property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and copyrights. 

Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when management determines that it is in its best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed to Applied for the life of the patents. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from third parties are not expected to be material. 

In the normal course of business, Applied from time to time receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms and/or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

Environmental Matters

Two of Applied's locations have been designated as environmental cleanup sites. In 1987, the United States Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations, in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named Applied as a "Responsible Party." Cleanup activities have been underway since 1984. The California Regional Water Quality Control Board has designated Applied as a "Discharger" with respect to the other site in Sunnyvale, California. Applied was named a Discharger at the Sunnyvale site because it currently owns the site in question, although prior owners and operators are being required to perform cleanup and monitoring activities. Neither compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating discharge of materials into the environment, nor remedial agreements or other actions relating to the environment, has had, or is expected to have, a material effect on Applied's capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. 

Employees

None of Applied's employees are represented by a trade union, and management considers its relations with employees to be good. In the high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon on its continued ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. At October 27, 2002, Applied employed 16,077 regular employees. On November 4, 2002, Applied announced a headcount reduction of approximately 1,750 positions, or 11 percent of its global workforce, in response to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor industry. 

Available Information

Applied's Web site is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its Web site, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Information contained on Applied's Web site is not part of this report. 
