BUSINESS

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

   The statements in this report that are forward-looking are based on current
expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. The
forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: operating results;
anticipated cash flows; capital expenditures; gross margins; adequacy of
resources to fund operations and capital investments; our ability to produce
AMD Athlon(TM) and AMD Duron(TM) microprocessors with the performance and in
the volume required by customers on a timely basis; our ability to maintain
average selling prices of seventh-generation microprocessors despite aggressive
marketing and pricing strategies of our competitors; our ability to increase
customer and market acceptance of our seventh- and eighth-generation
microprocessors; our ability, and the ability of third parties, to provide
timely infrastructure solutions (motherboards and chipsets) to support our
microprocessors; a recovery in the communication and networking industries
leading to an increase in the demand for Flash memory products; the effect of
foreign currency hedging transactions; the process technology transition in our
submicron integrated circuit manufacturing and design facility located in
Dresden, Germany (Dresden Fab 30); and the financing, construction and
utilization of the Fujitsu AMD Semiconductor Limited (FASL) manufacturing
facilities. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see the "Financial
Condition" and "Risk Factors" sections set forth in "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained in our
2001 Annual Report to Stockholders and such other risks and uncertainties as
set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange
Commission reports and filings.

General

   Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on
May 1, 1969. Our mailing address and executive offices are located at One AMD
Place, Sunnyvale, California 94086, and our telephone number is (408) 732-2400.
Unless otherwise indicated, references in this report to "AMD," "we" and "us"
include our subsidiaries.

   We are a semiconductor manufacturer with manufacturing facilities in the
United States, Europe and Asia and sales offices throughout the world. Our
products include a wide variety of industry-standard digital integrated
circuits (ICs) that are used in many diverse product applications such as
personal computers (PCs), workstations, servers, telecommunications equipment,
data and network communications equipment and consumer electronics.

   For financial information about geographic areas and for segment information
with respect to sales, operating results and identifiable assets, refer to the
information set forth in Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements
contained in our 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders.

   For a discussion of the risk factors related to our business operations,
please see the "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,"
"Risk Factors" and "Financial Condition" sections set forth in "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
contained in our 2001 Annual Report to Stockholders.

  The IC Industry

   The IC market has grown dramatically over the past decade, driven primarily
by the demand for electronic business and consumer products. Today, virtually
all electronic products use ICs, including PCs and related peripherals, voice
and data communications and networking products, facsimile and photocopy
machines, home entertainment equipment, industrial control equipment and
automobiles.

                                      2

<PAGE>

   The market for ICs can be divided into separate markets for digital and
analog devices. We participate in the market for digital ICs. The three types
of digital ICs used in most electronic systems are:

  .  microprocessors, which are used for control and computing tasks, and
     complementary chipset devices;

  .  memory circuits, which are used to store data and programming
     instructions; and

  .  logic circuits, which are employed to manage the interchange and
     manipulation of digital signals.

A discussion of the principal areas of the digital IC market in which we
participate follows.

  The Microprocessor Market

   The microprocessor market consists of two broad categories, which are based
on the function of the products. A microprocessor that performs computing tasks
is known as the Central Processing Unit (CPU) of a computer system.
Microprocessors used for control applications are often referred to as embedded
processors. AMD participates primarily in the CPU category, which is the
largest category within the microprocessor market.

   A CPU processor is an IC, generally consisting of millions of transistors,
that serves as the brain of a computer system such as a PC. The CPU processor
is typically the component most critical to the performance and efficiency of a
PC. The CPU processor controls data flowing through the electronic system and
manipulates data as specified by the hardware and software that controls the
system. In 1981, International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) introduced
its first PC containing a microprocessor based upon the x86 instruction set
developed by Intel Corporation and utilizing the Microsoft Corporation
MS-DOS(R) operating system. As circuit design and large scale integration
process technology have evolved, performance and functionality of each new
generation of x86 microprocessors have increased. The x86 microprocessor market
has been dominated by Intel since IBM's introduction of the PC.

   The x86 microprocessor market is characterized by intense competition, short
product life cycles and rapid advances in product design and process
technology. Today, the greatest demand for microprocessors is from PC
manufacturers. With few exceptions, PC manufacturers require x86
microprocessors that are compatible with the Microsoft Windows(R) operating
system. Improvements in the performance characteristics of microprocessors and
decreases in production costs resulting from advances in process technology
have broadened the market for PCs and, as a result, increased the demand for
microprocessors.

   The market for PC original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) is highly
competitive. Most PC suppliers have evolved from fully integrated manufacturers
with proprietary system designs to vendors focused on building brand
recognition and distribution capabilities. Almost all of these suppliers now
rely on Intel or on third-party manufacturers for the major subsystems of their
PCs, such as the motherboard and chipsets. These suppliers are also
increasingly outsourcing the design and manufacture of complete systems. The
third-party manufacturers of these subsystems, based primarily in Asia, are
focused on providing PCs, motherboards and complementary chipset devices that
incorporate the latest trends in features and performance at low prices.
Increasingly, these third-party manufacturers are also supplying fully
configured PC systems through alternative distribution channels.

   Embedded processors are also an important part of the microprocessor market.
Embedded processors are general purpose devices used to carry out a single
application with limited user interface and programmability. A system designed
around an embedded processor usually cannot be programmed by an end user
because the system is preprogrammed to execute a specific task. Key markets for
embedded processors include telecommunications, networking, office automation,
storage, automotive applications and industrial control.

  The Memory Market

   Memory ICs store data and instructions and are characterized as either
volatile or non-volatile. Volatile devices lose their stored information after
electrical power is shut off while non-volatile devices retain their

                                      3

<PAGE>

stored information. The three most significant categories of semiconductor
memory devices are (1) Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM) and (2) Static
Random Access Memory (SRAM), both of which are volatile memories, and (3)
non-volatile memory, which includes Flash memory, Read-Only Memory (ROM),
Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EPROM), and Electrically Erasable
Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM) devices.

   DRAM provides large capacity main memory, and SRAM provides specialized
high-speed memory. We do not produce any DRAM products, which make up the
largest part of the memory market, or SRAM products.

   AMD produces Flash memory devices and EPROM devices. Flash and other
non-volatile memory devices are used in applications in which data must be
retained after power is turned off. Several factors have contributed to an
increasing demand for memory devices in recent years, including the:

  .  expanding unit sales of PCs in the business and consumer markets;

  .  increasing use and functionality of cellular phones;

  .  increasing use of PCs to perform memory-intensive graphics and multimedia
     functions;

  .  volume of memory required to support faster microprocessors;

  .  proliferation of increasingly complex PC software; and

  .  increasing performance requirements of workstations, servers and
     networking and telecommunications equipment.

   Flash memory devices are being utilized for an expanding range of uses.
Flash memory devices have a size and cost advantage over EEPROM devices, which
utilize a larger, more expensive memory cell. Flash memory devices also provide
greater flexibility and ease of use when compared to other non-volatile memory
devices, such as ROM and EPROM, because Flash memory devices can be
electrically rewritten to update parameters or system software; ROM cannot be
rewritten and EPROM requires information to be erased using ultraviolet light
before it can be rewritten. Flash memory devices are used to store control
programs and system-critical data in communication devices such as cellular
telephones and routers, which are devices used to transfer data between local
area networks. Flash memory devices are also used in PC cards, which are
inserted into notebook and subnotebook computers or personal digital assistants
to provide added data storage.

  The Logic Market

   Logic devices consist of structurally interconnected groupings of simple
logical "AND" and logical "OR" functions, commonly described as "gates."
Typically, complex combinations of individual gates are required to implement
the specialized logic functions required for system applications. The greater
the number of gates on a logic device, the higher that logic device's density
and, in general, device cost (for a particular process and architecture). Logic
devices are generally grouped into five families of products (from lowest
density to highest density):

  .  standard logic devices;

  .  programmable logic devices (PLDs);

  .  conventional gate-arrays;

  .  standard cells; and

  .  full custom ICs.

Conventional gate-arrays, standard cells and full-custom ICs are often referred
to as application-specific ICs (ASICs).

                                      4

<PAGE>

   Many manufacturers of electronic systems are striving to develop new and
increasingly complex products to address rapidly evolving market opportunities.
Achievement of this goal often precludes the use of standard logic ICs and
ASICs. Standard logic ICs generally perform simple functions and cannot be
customized, limiting a manufacturer's ability to adequately tailor an
end-product system. Although ASICs can be manufactured to perform customized
functions, they generally involve relatively high initial design, engineering
and manufacturing costs and significant design risks, and may increase an
end-product's time to market. As a result, ASICs are generally limited to
high-volume products and products for which time to market may be less critical.

   A growing category of the full custom IC market is Application Specific
Standard Products (ASSPs). In this category, a full custom design, such as an
Ethernet controller, is used to implement a particular function and is sold to
multiple customers. Because the market requirements for these products have
become increasingly standard, they can achieve the functional advantages of
full custom design with the time to market advantages of a standard product.
Almost all of our networking products are a part of the ASSP category.

   Unlike ASICs and standard logic ICs, PLDs are standard products purchased by
system manufacturers in an unprogrammed or blank state. Each system
manufacturer may then program the PLDs to perform a variety of specific logic
functions. Certain PLDs are reprogrammable. Compared to standard logic ICs and
ASICs, PLDs allow system designers to design and implement custom logic more
quickly.

   On June 15, 1999, we sold Vantis Corporation, our PLD subsidiary, to Lattice
Semiconductor Corporation. We now function as a foundry to Vantis and plan to
continue to provide services to it through October 2002.

Product Segments

   In 2001, we participated in all three technology areas within the digital IC
market--microprocessors, memory circuits and logic circuits--through our Core
Products and Foundry Services segments. Our Core Products segment includes our
PC processors, memory products and other IC products. In 2001, PC processors
included our seventh-generation microprocessors, the AMD Athlon(TM) and AMD
Duron(TM) microprocessors, and our sixth-generation microprocessors. Memory
products included Flash memory devices and EPROM devices. Other IC products
included embedded processors, platform products, which primarily consist of
chipsets, and networking products. Our Foundry Services segment consisted of
service fees from Legerity, Inc., our former voice communication products
subsidiary, and Vantis.

Core Products

   Our Core Products segment ($3.8 billion, or 97 percent, of our 2001 net
sales) includes PC processor, memory and other IC products.

PC Processors

   In 2001, our most significant microprocessor product sales were from the AMD
Athlon and AMD Duron microprocessors, our seventh-generation microprocessors.
We based AMD Athlon and AMD Duron microprocessors on superscalar RISC
architecture and designed them to be compatible with operating system software
such as Windows XP, Windows 2000, Windows NT(R), Windows 98 (and Windows
predecessor operating systems), Linux, NetWare(R) and UNIX.

   We introduced the AMD Athlon XP processor for high-performance desktop
computers in October 2001. The AMD Athlon XP processor features QuantiSpeed(TM)
architecture and 3DNow!(TM) Professional technology. We also announced plans to
drive an initiative to develop a reliable processor performance metric.
Historically, x86 microprocessors have improved both instructions (work) per
clock and frequency compared to older generations. However, this is not true
with some processors today. Therefore, megahertz cannot be solely relied upon
as a measure of system performance. We therefore identify the AMD Athlon XP
processor using model numbers, as opposed to clock speed in megahertz.


                                      5

<PAGE>

   Maintaining PC processor sales levels in 2002 depends on a continuing
successful technology transition in our manufacturing facility located in
Dresden, Germany (Dresden Fab 30), our ability to maintain average selling
prices for our seventh-generation microprocessors, continuing growth in unit
shipments of our PC processors, and increasing market acceptance of the newest
versions of the AMD Athlon and AMD Duron microprocessors.

   We plan to continue to make significant capital expenditures to support our
microprocessor and Flash memory products both in the near and long term. Our
ability to increase microprocessor product revenues and benefit fully from the
substantial investments we have made and continue to make related to
microprocessors, depends upon the continuing success of our seventh-generation
and future generations of microprocessors, beginning with the eighth-generation
family of microprocessors code-named "Hammer," that we currently plan to
introduce at the end of 2002. The Hammer microprocessors will be our first PC
processors capable of 64-bit operation and are being designed to deliver
leading-edge performance on both the 64-bit software used by high-end
workstations and servers and the 32-bit software used by the majority of
desktop users.

   The microprocessor market is characterized by short product life cycles and
migration to ever-higher performance microprocessors. To compete successfully
against Intel in this market, we must transition to new process technologies at
a fast pace and offer higher performance microprocessors in significantly
greater volumes. We also must achieve yield and volume goals while producing
these higher performance microprocessors in order to offer these products at
competitive prices.

   Intel has dominated the market for microprocessors used in PCs for many
years. As a result, Intel has been able to control x86 microprocessor and PC
system standards and dictate the type of products the market requires of
Intel's competitors. In addition, the financial strength of Intel allows it to
market its products aggressively, target our customers and our channel partners
with special incentives and discipline customers who do business with us. These
aggressive activities can result in lower average selling prices for us and
adversely affect our margins and profitability. Intel also exerts substantial
influence over PC manufacturers and their channels of distribution through the
"Intel Inside" brand and other marketing programs. As long as Intel remains in
this dominant position, we may be materially and adversely affected by its:

  .  pricing and allocation strategies;

  .  product mix and introduction schedules;

  .  product bundling, marketing and merchandising strategies;

  .  control over industry standards, PC manufacturers and other PC industry
     participants, including motherboard, chipset and basic input/output system
     (BIOS) suppliers; and

  .  user brand loyalty.

We expect Intel to maintain its dominant position in the marketplace as well as
to continue to invest heavily in research and development, new manufacturing
facilities and other technology companies.

   Intel also dominates the PC system platform. As a result, PC OEMs are highly
dependent on Intel, less innovative on their own and, to a large extent,
distributors of Intel technology. In marketing our microprocessors to these
OEMs and dealers, we depend on companies other than Intel for the design and
manufacture of core-logic chipsets, graphics chips, motherboards, BIOS software
and other components. In recent years, many of these third-party designers and
manufacturers have lost significant market share or exited the business. In
addition, these companies produce chipsets, motherboards, BIOS software and
other components to support each new generation of Intel's microprocessors, and
Intel has significant leverage over their business opportunities.

   To compete with Intel in the microprocessor market in the future, we intend
to continue to form close relationships with third-party designers and
manufacturers of chipsets, motherboards, graphics chips, BIOS software and
other components. Similarly, we intend to expand our chipset and system design
capabilities and to offer OEMs licensed system designs incorporating our
processors and companion products. We cannot be certain, however, that our
efforts will be successful.

                                      6

<PAGE>

   We do not currently plan to develop microprocessors that are bus interface
protocol compatible with Intel microprocessors because our patent cross-license
agreement with Intel does not extend to microprocessors that are bus interface
protocol compatible with Intel's sixth and subsequent generation processors.
Thus, the AMD Athlon and AMD Duron microprocessors are not designed to function
with motherboards and chipsets designed to work with Intel microprocessors. The
same will be true of our Hammer family microprocessors. Accordingly, our
ability to compete with Intel in the market for seventh-generation and
eighth-generation microprocessors will depend on our ability to ensure that the
microprocessors can be used in PC platforms designed to support our
microprocessors or that platforms are available that support both Intel
processors and our microprocessors.

Memory Products

   Flash Memory Devices.  Our Flash memory devices are used in cellular
telephones, networking equipment and other applications that require memory to
be non-volatile and electrically rewritten. The ability of Flash memory devices
to be electrically rewritten provides greater flexibility and ease of use when
compared to EPROMs and other similar integrated circuits that do not share this
feature.

   Communications companies use Flash memory devices in cellular telephones and
related equipment to enable users to add and modify frequently called numbers
and to allow manufacturers to preprogram firmware and other information. In
networking applications, Flash memory devices are used in hubs, switches and
routers to enable systems to store firmware and reprogrammed Internet addresses
and other routing information. Use of Flash memory devices is proliferating
into a variety of other applications, such as set-top boxes, automotive control
systems, personal digital assistants, digital cameras and other consumer
electronic items. However, we expect competition in the market for Flash memory
devices to increase in 2002 and beyond as existing manufacturers introduce new
products and industry-wide production capacity increases.

   In 2001, most of our Flash memory devices were produced in Japan through
Fujitsu AMD Semiconductor Limited (FASL), our joint venture with Fujitsu
Limited, with additional devices produced under FASL's foundry arrangements.

   EPROM Devices.  EPROMs represent an older generation of erasable,
programmable read-only memory technology, which is used primarily in the
electronic equipment industry. These devices are used in cellular telephones,
wireless base stations, telecommunication switching equipment, automotive
applications, PC hard disk drives, printer controllers, industrial machine
controls and numerous other types of electronic equipment to store firmware,
which controls the equipment's operation. EPROMs are generally preferred over
more expensive Flash memory devices in applications where end users do not need
to reprogram the information stored on the IC. We believe the market for
EPROMs, which is significantly smaller than the market for Flash memory
devices, will continue to decline as EPROMs are replaced in various
applications by Flash memory devices.

Other ICs

   Embedded Processors.  Our embedded processors are x86 software compatible
general purpose processors designed specifically for embedded applications. Our
16-bit family of E86 embedded processors are built around the C186/C188
processor with additional integrated features such as additional memory, serial
ports, high-level data link control channels or universal serial bus ports. Our
32-bit E86 family of embedded processors includes the AMD-K6(R)-2E+,
AMD-K6-IIIE+ and Am486(R) discrete processors as well as the Elan(TM)SC400 and
ElanSC520 fully integrated processors. Our Elan processors integrate the PC AT
peripheral set on chip to serve small form factor applications.

   Platform Products.  Our platform products include chipsets and motherboard
reference design kits designed to support AMD seventh-generation
microprocessors for use in PCs. Since the AMD Athlon, AMD Duron and Hammer
family microprocessors are not designed to function with chipsets and
motherboards designed to work with Intel microprocessors, we must develop
compatible platform products. We license the

                                      7

<PAGE>

design interface specifications for these products to third-party manufacturers
to facilitate the sale of our microprocessors. It is possible that from time to
time a third-party manufacturer will be unable to make chipset products
available to the market at the same time our microprocessor products are
introduced. Since the lack of availability of these third-party chipsets could
impact our ability to sell our microprocessors, we manufacture a quantity of
chipsets within our own fabrication facilities or our authorized foundries on a
limited basis. We are then able to have a supply of products available for
sale, should the need exist, until they are available from the third-party
manufacturers.

   Networking Products.  Our networking products include logic devices that are
used in the data communication and networking industry to establish and manage
connectivity.

   Our product portfolio encompasses the following local area network (LAN)
products:

  .  home networking controllers and physical layer products;

  .  Ethernet controllers supporting the enterprise and small business
     networking areas;

  .  Ethernet physical layer and repeater products which are used in enterprise
     and small business systems solutions; and

  .  Ethernet physical layer and switch products which are used in enterprise,
     small business and telecommunication systems.

Foundry Services

   Our Foundry Services segment ($98 million, or 3 percent of our 2001 net
sales) includes fees for services provided to Vantis and Legerity. We will no
longer function as a foundry to Legerity after June 2002, in connection with
the closure of Fabs 14 and 15 as detailed below under "Manufacturing
Facilities." We plan to continue to provide foundry services to Vantis through
October 2002.

Acquisition of Alchemy Semiconductor

   On February 19, 2002, we acquired Alchemy Semiconductor, Inc., a privately
held company that designs, develops and markets low power, high performance
microprocessors for personal connectivity devices such as personal digital
assistants, web tablets, and portable and wired Internet access devices and
gateways. Employees of Alchemy will be part of our new Personal Connectivity
Solutions group, which will be dedicated to delivering connectivity solutions
for the non-PC devices listed above.

Research and Development; Manufacturing Technology

   Our expenses for research and development were $651 million in 2001, $642
million in 2000 and $636 million in 1999. These expenses represented 17 percent
of net sales in 2001, 14 percent of net sales in 2000 and 22 percent of net
sales in 1999.

   Our research and development expenses are charged to operating expenses as
they are incurred. Most of our research and development personnel are
integrated into our engineering staff.

   Manufacturing technology is the key determinant in the improvement of most
semiconductor products. Each new generation of process technology has resulted
in products with greater performance produced at lower cost. We continue to
make significant infrastructure investments to enable us to continue to achieve
high volume, high reliability and low cost production using leading edge
process technology.

   Our efforts concerning process technologies are focused in two major areas:
logic technology used by our microprocessors and embedded processors and
non-volatile memory technology used by Flash memory products. Our goals are to
improve product performance, increase manufacturing volumes and reduce unit
costs.

                                      8

<PAGE>

   In order to remain competitive, we must continue to make substantial
investments in the improvement of our process technologies. In particular, we
have made and continue to make significant research and development investments
in the technologies and equipment used to fabricate our microprocessor products
and our Flash memory devices. Portions of these investments might not be fully
recovered if we fail to continue to gain market acceptance or if the market for
our microprocessor or Flash memory products should significantly deteriorate.
In addition, if we are unable to remain competitive with respect to process
technology, we will be materially and adversely affected.

Competition

   The IC industry is intensely competitive. Products compete on performance,
quality, reliability, price, adherence to industry standards, software and
hardware compatibility, marketing and distribution capability, brand
recognition and availability. After a product is introduced, costs and average
selling prices normally decrease over time as production efficiency improves,
competitors enter the market and successive generations of products are
developed and introduced for sale. Technological advances in the industry
result in frequent product introductions, regular price reductions, short
product life cycles and increased product capabilities that may result in
significant performance improvements.

   In each area of the digital IC market in which we participate, we face
competition from different companies. With respect to microprocessors, Intel
holds a dominant market position. With respect to Flash memory products, our
principal competitors are Intel, STMicroelectronics N.V., Sharp Electronics
Corporation, Atmel Corporation and Fujitsu, our joint venture partner in FASL.

Manufacturing Facilities

   Our current IC manufacturing facilities are described in the chart set forth
below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              Wafer                 Approximate
                                               Size     Production  Clean Room
                                            (Diameter   Technology    (Square
Facility Location                           in Inches) (in Microns)  Footage)
-----------------                           ---------- ------------ -----------
<S>                                         <C>        <C>          <C>
Austin, Texas
   Fab 25..................................     8         0.18        120,000
   Fabs 14 and 15..........................     6          0.5         42,000
Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan
   FASL JV1/(1)/...........................     8         0.35         70,000
   FASL JV2/(1)/...........................     8      0.25 & 0.35     91,000
   FASL JV3/(1)/...........................     8         0.17        118,000
Dresden, Germany
   Fab 30..................................     8         0.18        115,100
</TABLE>
--------
/(1)/ We own 49.992 percent of FASL. Fujitsu owns 50.008 percent of FASL.

   In connection with a restructuring plan announced in September 2001, AMD
will close Fabs 14 and 15 at the end of the second quarter of 2002.

   The FASL JV3 building and clean room were completed and released to
production with volume revenue shipments beginning in the fourth quarter of
2001.

   We also have foundry arrangements for the production of our products by
third parties.

   Research and development are conducted at our Submicron Development Center,
a 42,000 square foot facility located in Sunnyvale, California, Fab 25 and
Dresden Fab 30.

                                      9

<PAGE>

   Our current assembly and test facilities are described in the chart set
forth below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              Approximate
                                            Assembly & Test
    Facility Location                       Square Footage     Activity
    -----------------                       --------------- ---------------
    <S>                                     <C>             <C>
    Penang, Malaysia.......................     377,000     Assembly & Test
    Bangkok, Thailand......................      78,000     Assembly & Test
    Singapore..............................     162,000                Test
    Suzhou, China..........................      30,250     Assembly & Test
</TABLE>

   As set forth above, nearly all product assembly and final testing of our
products are performed at our manufacturing facilities in Penang, Malaysia;
Bangkok, Thailand; Suzhou, China; and Singapore; or by subcontractors in the
United States and Asia. We also depend on foreign foundry suppliers and joint
ventures for the manufacture of a portion of our finished silicon wafers and
have international sales operations. The political and economic risks
associated with our manufacturing facilities and other operations in foreign
countries include:

  .  expropriation;

  .  changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic
     conditions;

  .  trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;

  .  difficulty in protecting our intellectual property;

  .  changes in foreign currency exchange rates and currency controls;

  .  changes in freight and interest rates;

  .  disruption in air transportation between the United States and our
     overseas facilities; and

  .  loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs.

   Certain Material Agreements.   Descriptions of certain material contractual
relationships we have relating to FASL, Dresden Fab 30, Motorola and UMC are
set forth below:

   FASL.  In 1993, we formed FASL, a joint venture with Fujitsu, for the
development and manufacture of non-volatile memory devices. FASL operates
advanced IC manufacturing facilities in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan (FASL JV1, FASL
JV2 and FASL JV3), for the production of Flash memory devices, which are sold
to us and Fujitsu. FASL is continuing the facilitization of FASL JV2 and FASL
JV3.

   We expect FASL JV2 and FASL JV3, including equipment, to cost approximately
$2.4 billion when fully equipped. As of December 30, 2001, approximately $1.5
billion of these costs had been funded by cash generated from FASL operations.
However, to the extent that additional funds are required for the full
facilitization of FASL JV2 and FASL JV3, we will be required to contribute cash
or guarantee third-party loans in proportion to our 49.992 percent interest in
FASL, up to 25 billion yen ($192 million). As of December 30, 2001, we had
$148 million in loan guarantees outstanding with respect to FASL third-party
loans. These costs are incurred in Japanese yen and are, therefore, subject to
change due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. On December 30, 2001, the
exchange rate was 128.02 yen to one U.S. dollar, the rate we used to translate
the amounts denominated in yen into U.S. dollars.

   In 2000, FASL further expanded its production capacity through a foundry
arrangement with Fujitsu Microelectronics, Inc. (FMI), a wholly owned
subsidiary of Fujitsu Limited. In connection with FMI equipping its wafer
fabrication facility in Gresham, Oregon (the Gresham Facility) to produce flash
memory devices for sale to FASL, we agreed to guarantee the repayment of up to
$125 million of Fujitsu's obligations as a co-signer with FMI under its global
multicurrency revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) with a
third-party bank (the Guarantee). On November 30, 2001, Fujitsu announced that
it was closing the Gresham Facility, due to the downturn of the flash memory
market. To date, we have not received notice from Fujitsu that FMI has defaulted

                                      10

<PAGE>

on any payment due under the Credit Facility. Furthermore, subsequent to year
end, we were informed that amounts borrowed by FMI under the Credit Facility do
not become due until the end of March 2002. Accordingly, under the terms of the
Guarantee, we are not at this time, and were not at December 30, 2001,
obligated to make any payments to Fujitsu. However, subsequent to year end,
Fujitsu requested that we pay the entire $125 million under the Guarantee.
Although we disagree with Fujitsu as to the amount, if any, of our obligations
under the Guarantee, Fujitsu has indicated its belief that we are obligated to
pay the full $125 million.

   In connection with FASL, AMD and Fujitsu have entered into various joint
development, cross-license and investment arrangements. Pursuant to these
agreements, the companies are providing their product designs and process and
manufacturing technologies to FASL. In addition, both companies are
collaborating in developing manufacturing processes and designing Flash memory
devices for FASL. The right of each company to use the licensed intellectual
property of the other with respect to certain products is limited both in scope
and geographic areas. For instance, AMD and Fujitsu have cross-licensed their
respective intellectual property to produce stand-alone Flash memory devices
with geometrics of 0.5 micron or smaller within the joint venture. Furthermore,
our ability to sell Flash memory products incorporating Fujitsu intellectual
property, whether or not produced by FASL, is also limited in Japan. Fujitsu is
likewise limited in its ability to sell Flash memory devices incorporating our
intellectual property, whether or not produced by FASL, in the United States.

   While the FASL joint venture has been successful to date, there can be no
assurance that Fujitsu and AMD will elect to continue the joint venture in its
present form or at all.

   Dresden Fab 30.  AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH (AMD Saxony), an indirect
wholly owned German subsidiary of AMD, continues to facilitize Dresden Fab 30,
which began production in the second quarter of 2000. AMD, the Federal Republic
of Germany, the State of Saxony and a consortium of banks are providing credit
support for the project. We currently estimate construction and facilitization
costs of Dresden Fab 30 will be $2.5 billion when fully equipped by the end of
2003. As of December 30, 2001, we had invested $1.8 billion.

   In March 1997, AMD Saxony entered into a loan agreement and other related
agreements (the Dresden Loan Agreements) with a consortium of banks led by
Dresdner Bank AG in order to finance the project. Because most of the amounts
under the Dresden Loan Agreements are denominated in deutsche marks, the dollar
amounts set forth below are subject to change based on applicable conversion
rates. We used the exchange rate as of December 30, 2001, which was
approximately 2.17 deutsche marks to one U.S. dollar, to value the amounts
denominated in deutsche marks. The Dresden Loan Agreements provide for the
funding of the construction and facilitization of Dresden Fab 30. The funding
consists of:

  .  equity, subordinated loans and loan guarantees from AMD;

  .  loans from a consortium of banks; and

  .  grants, subsidies and loan guarantees from the Federal Republic of Germany
     and the State of Saxony.

   The Dresden Loan Agreements require that we partially fund Dresden Fab 30
project costs in the form of subordinated loans to, or equity investments in,
AMD Saxony. In accordance with the terms of the Dresden Loan Agreements, as of
December 30, 2001, we have invested $334 million in the form of subordinated
loans to and equity investments in AMD Saxony. In addition to support from us,
the consortium of banks referred to above has made available up to $692 million
in loans to AMD Saxony to help fund Dresden Fab 30 project costs. AMD Saxony
had $602 million of such loans outstanding through December 30, 2001.

   Finally, the Federal Republic of Germany and the State of Saxony are
supporting the Dresden Fab 30 project, in accordance with the Dresden Loan
Agreements, in the form of:

  .  guarantees equal to the lesser of 65 percent of AMD Saxony bank debt or
     $692 million;

  .  capital investment grants and allowances totaling $286 million; and

                                      11

<PAGE>

  .  interest subsidies totaling $142 million.

   Of these amounts, AMD Saxony had received approximately $284 million in
capital investment grants and allowances and $64 million in interest subsidies
through December 30, 2001. The grants and subsidies are subject to conditions,
including meeting specified levels of employment by December 2001 and
maintaining those levels until June 2007. Noncompliance with the conditions of
the grants and subsidies could result in the forfeiture of all or a portion of
the future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion
of amounts received to date. As of December 30, 2001, we were in compliance
with all of the conditions of the grants and subsidies.

   In February 2001, we amended the Dresden Loan Agreements to reflect new
capacity and increased capital expenditure plans for Dresden Fab 30. Under the
February 2001 amendments, we agreed to increase and extend our guaranty of AMD
Saxony's obligations and to make available to AMD Saxony revolving loans of up
to $500 million. We expanded our obligation to reimburse AMD Saxony for the
cost of producing wafers for us, and we also agreed to cancel the cost overrun
facility made available by the banks. Under the February 2001 amendments, we
were released from financial covenants limiting capital expenditures and
requiring AMD Saxony to achieve capacity and production cost targets by the end
of 2001. As of December 30, 2001, $59 million of the revolving loans were
outstanding. The revolving loan amounts are denominated in European Union euros
and are, therefore, subject to change due to foreign exchange rate fluctuation.
We used the exchange rate on December 30, 2001, 1.11 euros to one U.S. dollar,
to translate the amount of the revolving loans.

   The Dresden Loan Agreements, as amended, also require that we:

  .  provide interim funding to AMD Saxony if either the remaining capital
     investment allowances or the remaining interest subsidies are delayed,
     such funding to be repaid to AMD as AMD Saxony receives the grants or
     subsidies from the state of Saxony;

  .  fund shortfalls in government subsidies resulting from any default under
     the subsidy agreements caused by AMD Saxony or its affiliates; and

  .  guarantee up to 35 percent of AMD Saxony's obligations under the Dresden
     Loan Agreements, which guarantee must not be less than $100 million or
     more than $277 million, until the bank loans are repaid in full.

   AMD Saxony would be in default under the Dresden Loan Agreements if we, AMD
Saxony or AMD Saxony Holding GmbH (AMD Holding), the parent company of AMD
Saxony and a wholly owned subsidiary of AMD, fail to comply with certain
obligations thereunder or upon the occurrence of certain events including:

  .  material variances from the approved plans and specifications;

  .  our failure to fund equity contributions or shareholder loans or otherwise
     comply with our obligations relating to the Dresden Loan Agreements;

  .  the sale of shares in AMD Saxony or AMD Holding;

  .  the failure to pay material obligations;

  .  the occurrence of a material adverse change or filings or proceedings in
     bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to us, AMD Saxony or AMD Holding; and

  .  the occurrence of default under our Loan and Security Agreement (the Loan
     Agreement) with a consortium of banks led by a domestic financial
     institution, effective on July 13, 1999.

   Generally, any default with respect to borrowings made or guaranteed by AMD
that results in recourse to us of more than $2.5 million and is not cured by
us, would result in a cross-default under the Dresden Loan Agreements and the
Loan Agreement. As of December 30, 2001, we were in compliance with all
conditions of the Dresden Loan Agreements.

                                      12

<PAGE>

   In the event we are unable to meet our obligations to AMD Saxony as required
under the Dresden Loan Agreements, we will be in default under the Dresden Loan
Agreements and the Loan Agreement, which default would permit acceleration of
certain indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We
cannot assure that we will be able to obtain the funds necessary to fulfill
these obligations. Any such failure would have a material adverse effect on us.

   We entered into foreign currency hedging transactions for Dresden Fab 30 in
1999, 2000 and 2001 and anticipate entering into additional foreign currency
hedging transactions in 2002 and in future years. We use foreign currency
forward and option contracts to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations on
our foreign currency exposures in our foreign sales subsidiaries, liabilities
for products purchased from FASL and for foreign currency denominated fixed
asset purchase commitments. The objective of these contracts is to minimize the
impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating results and
on the cost of capital asset acquisition. Our accounting policy for these
instruments is based on our designation of such instruments as hedging
transactions. We generally do not use derivative financial instruments for
speculative or trading purposes.

   Motorola.  In 1998, we entered into an alliance with Motorola for the
development of logic and Flash memory process technology. The alliance includes
a technology development and license agreement and a patent cross-license
agreement. Licenses under the agreement may be subject to variable royalty
rates. We are currently working with Motorola to cease our joint process
development efforts in the second half of 2002.

   UMC Alliance.  On January 31, 2002, we announced an alliance with United
Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) under which UMC and AMD will establish a
joint venture to own and operate a state-of-the-art, 300-mm wafer fabrication
facility in Singapore for high-volume production of PC processors and other
logic products. As part of the alliance, we and UMC will collaborate in the
development of advanced process technologies for semiconductor logic products.
We separately announced a foundry agreement under which UMC will produce PC
processors to augment Dresden Fab 30 production capacity for devices produced
on 130-nanometer and smaller-geometry technology.

Marketing and Sales

   Our products are marketed and sold under the AMD trademark. We employ a
direct sales force through our principal facilities in Sunnyvale, California,
and field sales offices throughout the United States and abroad, primarily
Europe and Asia Pacific. We also sell our products through third-party
distributors and independent representatives in both domestic and international
markets pursuant to nonexclusive agreements. The distributors also sell
products manufactured by our competitors. No single distributor or OEM customer
accounted for ten percent or more of our net sales in 2001. In 2000 and 1999,
one of our OEM customers accounted for approximately 11 and 13 percent of net
sales. No distributor accounted for ten percent or more of net sales in 2000 or
1999.

   Distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. Generally, we
sell to distributors under terms allowing the distributors certain rights of
return and price protection on unsold merchandise held by them. The price
protection and return rights we offer to our distributors could materially and
adversely affect us if there is an unexpected significant decline in the price
of our products.

   Our international sales operations entail political and economic risks,
including expropriation, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations, changes
in freight rates and changes in rates and exemptions for taxes and tariffs.

Raw Materials

   Certain raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products are
available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, we are dependent on
key chemicals from a limited number of suppliers and rely on a few foreign
companies to supply the majority of certain types of the IC packages we
purchase. Interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry could
cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If

                                      13

<PAGE>

we were unable to procure certain of these materials, we might have to reduce
our manufacturing operations. Such a reduction could have a material adverse
effect on our business. To date, we have not experienced significant difficulty
in obtaining the raw materials required for our manufacturing operations.

Environmental Regulations

   Our business involves the use of hazardous materials. If we fail to comply
with governmental regulations related to the use, storage, handling, discharge
or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our
manufacturing processes, we may be subject to fines, suspension of production,
alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of our operations. Such
regulations could require us to procure expensive remediation equipment or to
incur other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure to
control the use of, disposal or storage of, or adequately restrict the
discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities and
could have a material adverse effect on our business. Violations of
environmental laws may result in criminal and civil liabilities.

Intellectual Property and Licensing

   We have been granted over 4,300 United States patents and have several
thousand patent applications pending in the United States. In certain cases, we
have filed corresponding applications in foreign jurisdictions. We expect to
file future patent applications in both the United States and abroad on
significant inventions, as we deem appropriate.

   In May 2001, we signed a 10-year cross-licence agreement with Intel
Corporation. In addition, we have entered into numerous cross-licensing and
technology exchange agreements with other companies under which we both
transfer and receive technology and intellectual property rights. Although we
attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, in the United States and
abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, we may
not be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property
or prevent others from independently developing similar technology. Any patent
licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or
circumvented, or rights granted thereunder may not provide a competitive
advantage to us. Further, patent applications that we file may not be issued.
Despite our efforts to protect our rights, others may independently develop
similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other
rights. In addition, it is difficult to cost-effectively monitor compliance
with, and enforce, our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis.

   From time to time, we have been notified that we may be infringing
intellectual property rights of others. If any such claims are asserted against
us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party's intellectual
property rights. We cannot assure you that all necessary licenses can be
obtained on satisfactory terms, or at all. We could decide, in the alternative,
to resort to litigation to challenge such claims. Such challenges could be
extremely expensive and time-consuming and could have a material and adverse
effect on us. We cannot assure you that litigation related to the intellectual
property rights of us or others will always be avoided or successfully
concluded.

Backlog

   We manufacture and market standard lines of products. Consequently, a
significant portion of our sales are made from inventory on a current basis.
Sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or
agreements covering purchases over a period of time, which orders or agreements
may be revised or canceled without penalty. Generally, in light of current
industry practice and experience, we do not believe that such agreements
provide meaningful backlog figures or are necessarily indicative of actual
sales for any succeeding period.

Employees

   On January 27, 2002, we employed approximately 14,415 employees, none of
whom are represented by collective bargaining arrangements. We believe that our
relationship with our employees is good.

                                      14

<PAGE>

Executive Officers of the Registrant

   W. J. Sanders III--Mr. Sanders, 65, is our Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer and has been since he co-founded AMD in 1969. Mr. Sanders
will retire as Chief Executive Officer on April 25, 2002; if re-elected, Mr.
Sanders will serve as Chairman of the Board through December 27, 2003.

   Hector de J. Ruiz--Dr. Ruiz, 56, is our President and Chief Operating
Officer. Dr. Ruiz will be appointed our Chief Executive Officer on April 25,
2002. Dr. Ruiz joined AMD in January 2000. Before joining AMD, Dr. Ruiz had
been President of the Semiconductor Products Sector of Motorola, Inc. since
1997. Dr. Ruiz had held various executive positions with Motorola since 1977.

   Benjamin M. Anixter--Mr. Anixter, 64, is our Vice President, External
Affairs, and has been since 1987. Mr. Anixter became a corporate officer in
April of 1999. He has held positions with us since 1971.

   Robert R. Herb--Mr. Herb, 40, is our Executive Vice President, Chief Sales
and Marketing Officer. Mr. Herb joined AMD in 1983. In 1998, Mr. Herb became an
officer of AMD and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Co-Chief Marketing
Officer. From 1996 until 1998, Mr. Herb served as the Vice President of Group
Strategic Marketing for the Computation Products Group. Before that, he was a
director of marketing for the Personal Computer Products Division.

   Walid Maghribi--Mr. Maghribi, 49, was our Senior Vice President and
President of the Memory Group until he resigned on March 1, 2002. Mr. Maghribi
joined us in 1986 and was Group Vice President, Memory Group before being
promoted to Senior Vice President and President of the Memory Group in 2001.
Before joining AMD, Mr. Maghribi was Director of Operations of Seeq Technology,
which he joined in 1982.

   Thomas M. McCoy--Mr. McCoy, 51, is our Senior Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary. Before his appointment as Senior Vice President, Mr.
McCoy held the office of Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from
1995 to 1998. Before joining AMD, Mr. McCoy was with the law firm of O'Melveny
and Myers where he practiced law, first as an associate and then as a partner,
from 1977 to 1995.

   Robert J. Rivet--Mr. Rivet, 47, is our Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. Mr. Rivet joined us in September 2000. Before joining us, he
had served as Senior Vice President and Director of Finance of the
Semiconductor Products Sector of Motorola since 1997. Mr. Rivet served in a
number of positions in semiconductor operations at Motorola since 1981, after
joining the company in 1976 as a senior financial analyst and senior accountant.

   William T. Siegle--Dr. Siegle, 63, is our Senior Vice President, Technology
Operations and Chief Scientist. Dr. Siegle was Group Vice President, Technology
Development Group and Chief Scientist from 1997 until 1998. Before his
appointment as Group Vice President, Dr. Siegle had served as Vice President,
Integrated Technology Department and Chief Scientist since 1990.

   Stan Winvick--Mr. Winvick, 62, is our Senior Vice President, Human
Resources. Before his appointment as Senior Vice President in 1991, Mr. Winvick
had served as Vice President, Human Resources since 1980.

   Stephen J. Zelencik--Mr. Zelencik, 67, is our Senior Vice President, Market
Development. Before his appointment as Senior Vice President, Market
Development in 1999, Mr. Zelencik served as Senior Vice President and Co-Chief
Marketing Officer. From 1979 until 1998, Mr. Zelencik was Senior Vice President
and Chief Marketing Executive.
