ITEM 1. BUSINESS.


Background

        ANADIGICS, Inc. (the "Company") was incorporated in Delaware in 1984.
Our corporate headquarters are located at 141 Mt. Bethel Road, Warren, New
Jersey 07059, and our telephone number at that address is 908-668-5000.

         ANADIGICS, Inc. designs and manufactures radio frequency integrated
circuit (RFIC) solutions for the wireless and broadband communications markets.
Our high frequency RFIC products enable manufacturers of communications
equipment to enhance overall system performance and reduce manufacturing cost
and time to market. Our products are primarily included in cellular and PCS
(personal communications service) phones and base stations, wireless local area
networks (WLANs), and cable television infrastructure and set-top boxes. We
offer a broad array of products including amplifiers, switches, tuner integrated
circuits, photodiodes and integrated RF modules. These integrated circuits
perform the transmit and receive functions that are critical to the performance
of wireless and broadband communication systems.

         In the wireless market, we focus on RFIC solutions for wireless
communication handset applications operating over various air interface
standards, including CDMA, GSM, WCDMA, GPRS and EDGE (Code Division Multiple
Access, Global System for Mobile communication, Wideband CDMA, General Packet
Radio Service and Enhanced Data rate for GSM Evolution). In the broadband
markets, our focus is on applications for WLAN systems, cable television (CATV)
subscriber products, CATV infrastructure systems, and fiber optic communications
systems. We believe we have a competitive advantage in the markets we serve due
to our design, development and applications expertise, our superior compound
semiconductor technologies, our high-volume, low-cost state-of-the-art
manufacturing processes and expertise, and our strong working relationships with
leading original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers
(ODMs) and reference design houses (collectively our "market customers").

         We design, develop and manufacture RFICs primarily using Gallium
Arsenide (GaAs) compound semiconductor substrates with various process
technologies, Metal Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors (MESFET),
Pseudomorphic High Electron Mobility Transistors (pHEMT), and Heterojunction
Bipolar Transistors (HBT).

         The quality and reliability of our products results from a
comprehensive design, characterization, qualification, and robust manufacturing
process. In addition to the design team located at our corporate headquarters in
Warren, New Jersey, we operate development centers in Richardson, Texas;
Atlanta, Georgia; San Jose, California; Aalborg, Denmark; Taipei, Taiwan and
Seoul, Korea.

         Our design and applications engineering staff is strategically active
and engaged with customers during all phases of design and production. This
strategy helps our customers streamline their design process and time to market,
achieve cost-effective and manufacturable designs, and ensure a smooth
transition into high-volume production.

         We have two company-owned fabrication facilities ("fabs"): a
state-of-the-art six-inch diameter analog GaAs fab located at our corporate
headquarters in Warren, New Jersey, and a two-inch diameter indium phosphide
(InP) fab located in Camarillo, California. Our six-inch wafer fab allows us to
produce, at a small incremental cost, more than twice the RF die per wafer
compared with the current industry norm four-inch wafer. We believe our strong
manufacturing fabrication capability, combined with logistics expertise and
innovative product designs, allow us to quickly develop and manufacture products
in line with market and customer requirements.

Developments

         In March 2003, we acquired the WLAN power amplifier product line from
RF Solutions, headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia as an entrance into the
high-growth and emerging WLAN market. In October 2003, we acquired the Tavanza
CDMA power amplifier business located in San Jose, California from Celeritek,
increasing our customer expansion and product design efforts within the CDMA
handset market.

Industry Background

         Over the last decade, there have been remarkable developments in
electronic communications, as evidenced by the emergence of wireless
communications, Internet services and digital television services. Radio
frequency/microwave and integrated circuit technologies have enabled increases
in communications capacity and significant reductions in systems costs. The
wireless and broadband communications markets are beneficiaries of current
technological trends, including higher frequencies, digital modulation and
higher levels of electronic integration.

                                       3
<PAGE>

         Wireless communications are growing rapidly and replacing landline
telephone services in mature markets and are being built in lieu of landline
services in other emerging markets. Worldwide unit sales of cellular/PCS
wireless handsets were approximately 500 million in 2003.

         Broadband markets are also benefiting from technological changes. Cable
television systems are moving from one-way analog signal distribution systems to
interactive digital systems offering increased and new video content, Internet
connection services and telephony. We estimate that approximately 10 million
digital cable television (CATV) set-top boxes were produced in 2003. The
continued build out of the cable infrastructure network required a production of
approximately 2.5 million line extenders, systems amplifiers and fiber nodes.
Additionally, WLANs continue to be a bright spot in the worldwide chip
marketplace. The demand for increased mobility, seamless communications,
internet browsing, and streaming video/audio is driving the need for increased
throughput and gaining even greater momentum in WLANs in the enterprise and home
markets. New standards, such as 802.11g, 802.11 b/g as well as dual-band combo
products, are accelerating the adoption and expanding the use of WLANs globally.
We estimate that approximately 40 million WLAN chipsets, primarily wireless
notebooks and access points, were shipped in 2003.

         Activity in broadband fiber optic networks is being driven by demand
from Internet and corporate users for high-speed data transfer capability and
the resultant demand for Internet, Local Area Networks (LAN), Metropolitan Area
Networks (MAN), and Storage Area Networks (SAN).

         Given these developments, our market customers are facing the following
challenges and need the following solutions from their suppliers:

         o        Shorter cycle times. In both the wireless and broadband
                  communications markets, manufacturers must bring new
                  subscriber products to market quickly in order to maintain
                  their market position. The development of multi-chip modules,
                  using advanced packaging techniques, and the development of
                  relationships with providers of RF reference designs is
                  imperative;

         o        Need for low-cost products. Wireless handsets and cable
                  set-top boxes are increasingly becoming consumer-driven,
                  commodity products. Component suppliers must be cost effective
                  in order for their market customers to stay competitive; and

         o        Stronger supplier relationships. The digital, wireless, cable
                  and fiber optic industries are standards driven. Companies in
                  the communications industry must work very closely with their
                  suppliers in order to develop new products. Companies
                  therefore limit themselves to a small number of suppliers in
                  order to keep their competitive advantages.

The GaAs Advantage

         Through our research and development efforts, we have developed
expertise in producing cost-effective GaAs-based RFICs for high-volume
commercial applications. These circuits offer the performance attributes
required for radio frequency/microwave applications that are not easily
obtainable with silicon-based integrated circuits. GaAs transistors can operate
at frequencies greater than silicon transistors, and therefore can handle the
requirements of radio frequency/microwave applications. GaAs RFICs have a lower
noise figure than silicon-based integrated circuits, providing increased
sensitivity, less distortion and interference and better dynamic range, thereby
enabling systems to handle a wide range of signal strengths. GaAs is a
semi-insulating material that facilitates integration of the passive components
required in radio frequency/microwave applications. Finally, GaAs RFICs used in
transmitter applications are more power-efficient than silicon-based circuits,
allowing for longer battery life or use of smaller batteries.

The InGaP Advantage

         In the industry, there are two predominant commercially viable types of
HBT process technologies. Earlier generations use either beryllium or carbon
doping in the base layer and Aluminum Gallium Arsenide (AlGaAs) in the emitter
layer. The state-of-the-art for HBT uses carbon doping in the base layer and
Indium Gallium Phosphide (InGaP) in the emitter layer.

         There are several significant advantages to InGaP. One advantage is
stability over a range of temperatures. An InGaP HBT device will experience only
an approximate 10% drop in gain over a range of 0 to 100 degrees Celsius, while
the gain loss in an AlGaAs device approximates 50%. An InGaP device has much
higher reliability than an AlGaAs device, giving the option to run the InGaP
device at higher temperatures. These advantages lead to smaller chip sizes and
thus lower cost. Finally, InGaP allows for more robust manufacturing because the
material has the advantage of a selective etch process not possible with AlGaAs.

         The InGaP advantages of performance, reliability and manufacturability
led to our decision to develop the world's first commercially viable 6-inch
InGaP HBT process, which was completed in 2000 and complements our GaAs MESFET
technology.

                                       4
<PAGE>

ANADIGICS' Strategy

         Our objective is to be a leading supplier of RFICs for the wireless and
broadband communications markets. The cornerstone of our strategy is to
capitalize on opportunities in the wireless and broadband communications markets
by addressing applications that leverage our RFIC design and manufacturing
expertise and longstanding relationships with leading companies in these
markets. The key elements of this strategy include:

         Be First-to-Market with Proprietary Value-Added Products

         We intend to continue to design timely, cost-effective RFIC solutions
for our target markets. In developing prototypes, the combination of an
experienced engineering staff, a "quick-turn" wafer fabrication facility, the
flexibility of using both in-house and contracted product assembly, and a world
class product testing process generally allow us to develop parts and be ready
for customer evaluation in less than one month. This design efficiency
contributes to customer satisfaction and allows us to improve product designs
rapidly for manufacturing efficiency. We will continue to apply our
"best-of-breed" product differentiation strategy, which focuses on developing
high-performance and integrated products. We believe that this strategy has
expanded the company's potential available market in 2003 from $200 million to
$1.1 billion covering wireless RFICs shipped into the mobile handset market,
wireless LAN (WLAN) market, and the wireless infrastructure market.

         Capitalize on World Class Manufacturing Capabilities, while Reducing
Costs

         We will continue to focus on improving manufacturing performance and
customer service, while reducing costs. We believe we can effectively control
the critical phases of the production process in order to realize high
manufacturing yields, product quality and customer satisfaction. Our six-inch
wafer fab provides increased manufacturing capacities and shorter cycle times at
a lower incremental cost than four-inch wafer fabs. We believe our strong
working relationship with overseas manufacturing subcontractors will allow us to
continue to deliver low-cost products to our customers.

         Forge Strong Customer Relationships

         We have developed strong working relationships with our customers, many
of whom are leading manufacturers in their markets. Because our target markets
are standards-driven, customer relationships are important. These relationships
provide us with product development opportunities and the ability to anticipate
future market needs. The rapid feedback received from our customers during the
product design phase increases the likelihood that our designs will meet our
customers' cost and performance requirements. We believe furthering our
relationships with reference design companies will continue to contribute market
share gains within each of the wireless and broadband communications markets.

         Pursue Strategic Alliances and Investments

         We will continue to pursue strategic alliances and investments to
expand and improve upon our technologies, industry expertise, products and
market share. We expect that these alliances and investments will be
complementary to current activities and will enhance our ability to work with
leading companies to develop next generation solutions. We believe the
acquisitions completed during 2003 related to the purchase of the WLAN Power
Amplifier product line from RF Solutions and the TAVANZA CDMA Power Amplifier
business from Celeritek have strategically positioned us to capitalize on the
large and growing markets in wireless and WLAN. As new strategic opportunities
to increase shareholder value arise, we will continue to monitor and selectively
pursue them.


Target Markets and Products

         The Company classifies its revenues based upon the end application of
the product in which its integrated circuits are used. For the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, wireless applications accounted for
approximately 38%, 54% and 55% of total net sales, while broadband applications
accounted for approximately 62%, 46% and 45% of total net sales.

         Wireless Communications

         The wireless communications market is a growing, dynamic market as a
result of increasing demand for:

         o        Portable voice and data communications;

         o        Smaller, lighter handsets offering increased functionality;

         o        Reliable access and voice quality comparable to land lines;

         o        Longer talk-time and standby time; and

         o        Wireless access to the Internet.

                                       5
<PAGE>

         Our RFIC products are used in handsets where small size, multi-band
operation and low power consumption are key features. Currently in the United
States, the primary digital air interface communications standard is Code
Division Multiple Access (CDMA). Another standard, Global System for Mobile
communication (GSM), is the most widely deployed digital standard on a worldwide
basis, with total subscribers expected to exceed one billion in 2004. We
currently offer and continue to bring to market an array of products for both
the handset and infrastructure markets for these major air interface standards.

         We have developed multiband/multimode InGaP HBT power amplifier (PA)
modules for the CDMA and GSM standards. InGaP HBT module technology offers high
efficiency, low power consumption and stability over a range of temperatures, as
well as a lower total solution cost. This combination allows our customers to
build the transmitter section of the wireless handset more efficiently by
reducing design complexity and component counts.

         Our principal customers in the wireless market include Kyocera and LG
Electronics. Of our total net sales in the year ended December 31, 2003, Kyocera
accounted for 28% and LG Electronics accounted for 14%, while no other customer
in this market accounted for more than 10% of total net sales during 2003.

         The following table sets forth information regarding our principal
products in the wireless communications market:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
        <S>                                                               <C>
            Product                                                       Application

            Handset Products

            o   Power Amplifier (PA)                                      Used in RF transmit chain of wireless handset to
                                                                          amplify signal to base station.

            o   Single-band PA module                                     Encapsulates InGaP HBT PA die and certain passive
                                                                          components in multi-layer laminate module. Used primarily
                                                                          in CDMA handsets

            o   Quad-band PA module                                       Encapsulates InGaP HBT PA die, CMOS bias control chip,
                                                                          and certain passive components in multi-layer laminate
                                                                          module. Used primarily in GSM handsets

            o   PowerPlexer (TM)                                          Encapsulates two InGaP HBT PA die, CMOS, bias and power
                                                                          control chip, antenna switch, coupler, harmonic filter
                                                                          and passives in multi-layer laminate module. Used in GSM
                                                                          handsets

            o   RF Switches                                               Used in wireless handsets and other wireless
                                                                          applications to switch between receive and transmit
                                                                          modes and multiple frequency bands

          Infrastructure Products

            o   Driver Amplifiers                                         Used in cellular base stations in the transmit chain

            o   Gain Blocks                                               Used in cellular base stations in the transmit chain

</TABLE>


         Broadband

         Broadband encompasses our key markets in support of data and
telecommunications support systems and primarily covers cable television, WLAN
and fiber applications.

         The trends that currently drive product development in the cable
television markets are:

         o        Shift to digital cable television with interactive services;

         o        Demand for high speed Internet access; and

         o        Emergence of cable telephony.

         The convergence of these trends, enabled by digital transmission,
creates the need for innovative RFICs for cable television applications.

                                       6
<PAGE>

         Cable television systems, which traditionally delivered one-way analog
television programming, limited to a few entertainment channels, are
increasingly used to deliver a wide array of interactive video and other
services, such as high speed Internet access and telephony. In order to support
these new applications, cable system operators must upgrade both the bandwidth
(i.e., capacity) and quality of the infrastructure and terminal equipment. The
new equipment must also be able to handle digital as well as analog modulated
signals.

         Our cable products are used in CATV set-top boxes and infrastructure
applications. We produce tuner and reverse amplifier RFICs, as well as line
amplifiers and systems amplifiers for infrastructure applications. The tuner
RFICs are used in double conversion tuners to receive analog and digital signals
in the 50-860 megahertz frequency band. Reverse amplifier RFICs are used in
certain cable set-top boxes that require a reverse path for interactivity. These
tuner and reverse amplifier RFICs enable customers to accelerate and simplify
their designs, and reduce manufacturing complexity and costs.

         We have also developed GaAs RFIC line amplifiers to be used in 50-860
megahertz cable television infrastructure equipment, such as line extenders,
distribution amplifiers and system amplifiers. Our product offerings in this
area include amplifier RFICs that operate at 24 volts.

         Our principal customer in the cable and broadcast markets is Motorola,
Inc., which represented 14% of total net sales in 2003. No other customer in
this market accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales in 2003.

         The following table sets forth information regarding our principal
products in the cable television market:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                                          <C>

   Product                                                   Application

   Subscriber Products:

       o    Upconverters and downconverters                  Used in set-top box double conversion video and
                                                             data tuners

       o    Reverse amplifiers                               Used in set-top boxes and cable telephony to transmit signals from a
                                                             set-top box upstream to a cable company headend for interactive
                                                             applications

   Infrastructure Products:

       o    Line amplifiers                                  Used in cable television systems to distribute signals from cable
                                                             headends to subscribers

       o    Drop amplifiers                                  Used in cable television systems to amplify signals at individual
                                                             subscriber homes

</TABLE>

         In March 2003, we acquired the WLAN power amplifier product line from
RF Solutions, headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia as an entrance into the growing
WLAN market. The WLAN market is being driven by:

         o        Demand for wireless data access and portability of wireless
                  access devices;

         o        Emergence of several wireless data networking mediums,
                  primarily via personal computers; and

         o        new market applications such as consumer electronics and
                  wireless voice over Internet protocol (VoIP).

         Adoption of wireless data networking has been enabled by the
introduction of a family of industry standards for WLAN technology that have
substantially increased capacity and data rates. The introduction of the 802.11g
standard allows the existing 2.4 GHz spectrum to be operated more efficiently
with a substantial increase in data rates from the previous one or two megabits
per second (Mbps) now up to 54 Mbps. The introduction of the 802.11a standard
has enabled the use of the 5 GHz spectrum and substantially increased the
available channel capacity. The wireless networking market is further
transitioning from products that operate using a single standard to products
that support all of the standards using the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands in a variety
of combinations. These 802.11a/g dual band products will support the continued
growth of the market while substantially diminishing or avoiding frequency
interference and network congestion.

         The wireless capabilities of WLAN networking products are provided
primarily by a semiconductor chipset. A wireless chipset typically contains a
radio transceiver, a digital media access controller (MAC), baseband processor
and power amplifier to boost the transmit signal; improving range and data
throughput. Traditionally, a single power amplifier supported a chipset.
However, the market has begun seeking both dual band power amplifiers and power
amplifiers with higher levels of integration. This increased integration will
provide for smaller size, higher reliability and faster time to market for WLAN
systems.

                                       7
<PAGE>

         No single customer in the WLAN market was responsible for more than 10%
of total net sales in 2003. The following table sets forth information regarding
our principal products in the WLAN market:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                                        <C>

Product                                                    Application

Single band Products:

         o  2.4 GHz power amplifiers                       Used in wireless network interface cards (NIC),
                                                           embedded PC notebook (mini-PCI) and access point
                                                           (AP) applications to boost the transmit signal for
                                                           increased range and data throughput.

         o  5 GHz power amplifiers                         Used in wireless rich-media applications, such as
                                                           streaming audio/video, to boost the transmit
                                                           signal for increased range and data throughput.

         o  Dual band power amplifiers                     Used in wireless network systems that require
                                                           seamless transition between frequencies to mitigate
                                                           interference and congestion.

</TABLE>


The fiber optic market is being driven by:

         o        Internet data traffic use;

         o        Implementation of corporate local area networks (LAN) and
                  storage area networks (SAN), which require high speed data
                  transfer capability;

         o        Upgrades of existing telecommunication and data communication
                  systems with fiber optic systems; and

         o        Expected build outs to Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN)


         Fiber optic communication systems use low-loss fiber optic cable to
link central office switches with one another and to connect the central office
to the serving area. Most telecommunication networks today are based on
Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) (United States and Japan) or SDH (Europe)
standards, which require high sensitivity, high bandwidth, and wide dynamic
range receivers. Fiber optic data communications systems use either Gigabit
Ethernet or Fibre Channel standards to achieve high-speed data transfer. The
Gigabit Ethernet standard has emerged as the most widely used in LAN
environments, as it addresses the need for short distance, high speed transfers
of large volumes of information. The Fibre Channel and emerging 4x Fibre Channel
standards have become the most widely used in SAN environments.

         The front end of most fiber optic receivers contains a photodetector
and a transimpedance amplifier (TIA), which are used in both fiber optic
telecommunications and data communications networks. Our GaAs TIAs for the
telecommunications networks are designed to meet the requirements of SONET/SDH
systems covering data speeds of OC-3 through OC-192, certain of which are for
use in Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM) systems. With respect to
telecommunications receivers and transceivers, we offer long wavelength (1300
nanometer) positive-intrinsic-negative photodiodes and transimpedance amplifiers
(PIN TIAs) for SONET and SDH applications.

         For data communications receivers and transceivers, we sell short
wavelength (850 nanometer) monolithically-integrated metal-semiconductor-metal
photodiodes and transimpedance amplifiers (MSM-TIAs) and short wavelength PIN
TIAs for the Gigabit Ethernet and Fibre Channel standards.

         The continued LAN/SAN growth is placing new demands on MANs to provide
expanded cost-effective capacity at 2.5 and 10 gigabits per second (Gb/s) to
meet the needs of dedicated high-speed Internet users and the requirements for
high-speed communication between private LANs and remote storage. We are
expanding our product portfolio to offer low power consumption 3.3 volt TIAs
addressing data rates from OC3 to OC48, 1, 2 and 4X Fibre Channel and Gigabit
Ethernet applications.

         In April 2001, we acquired Telcom Devices Corp. ("Telcom"), an
optoelectronic semiconductor manufacturer of indium phosphide (InP) based "long
wavelength" (1310 and 1550 nanometers) emitter (light-emitting diode, or LED)
and detector (photodiode) products for the telecommunications and data
communications markets. Telcom division produces active components used
primarily for fiber optic applications in telecommunications systems, data
communications networks, CATV broadcast and reception, fiber optic test and
measurement equipment, and scientific, custom, and military markets.

                                       8
<PAGE>

         No single customer in the fiber optics market was responsible for more
than 10% of total net sales in 2003. The following table sets forth information
regarding our principal products in the fiber optic market:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                                                  <C>


    Product                                                          Application

    Fiber Optic Products:

          o   Transimpedance amplifiers                              Used in the receivers or transceivers of a telecom
                                                                     fiber optic link to amplify the signal received

          o   Limiting amplifiers                                    Used in the receivers or transceivers of a telecom
                                                                     fiber optic link to provide a voltage limited output

          o   Metal semiconductor metal                              Used in the transceiver of a datacom fiber optic
              transimpedance amplifiers                              link to detect and amplify short wavelength optical
              (MSM-TIA)                                              signals

          o   PIN-TIA                                                Used in the transceiver of a datacom fiber optic link
                                                                     to detect and amplify long wavelength optical signals


          o   Photodiodes                                            Long wavelength detectors for SONET/SDH transmitters
                                                                     and receivers, CATV receivers and instrumentation

          o   Light-Emitting Diodes (LEDs)                           Long wavelength emitters

</TABLE>


Marketing, Sales, Distribution and Customer Support

         We primarily sell our products to our direct customers worldwide. We
have developed close working relationships with leading companies in the
broadband and wireless communications markets. Additionally, we selectively use
independent manufacturers' representatives and distributors to complement our
direct sales and customer support efforts. In 2003 we continued to evaluate,
upgrade and expand our sales representative organization. We believe this is
critical to our objective of expanding our customer base, especially as we
expand our product portfolio. In particular, we established a strategic presence
in both Taipei, Taiwan and Seoul, South Korea by opening field sales
applications support centers. These support centers position our resources in
close proximity to our existing and potential customers in these regions
allowing us to provide real-time service.

         We believe that the technical nature of our products and markets
demands an extraordinary commitment to building and maintaining close
relationships with our customers. The sales and marketing staff, assisted by the
technical staff and senior management, visit prospective and existing customers
worldwide on a regular basis. Additionally, both field and factory sales
personnel communicate regularly with our customers. We believe that these
contacts are vital to the development of close, long-term working relationships
with our customers, and in obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and
information regarding technical and market trends.

         Our design and applications engineering staff actively communicate with
customers during all phases of design and production. We provide our customers
with engineering data and up-to-date product application notes, and communicate
with our customers' engineers on a regular basis to assist in resolving
technical problems on and off site. In most cases the design and applications
engineers obtain prototypes from our customers in order to troubleshoot and
identify potential improvements to the design in parallel with our customers'
efforts. This strategy helps our customers speed up their design process,
achieve cost-effective and manufacturable designs, and ensure a smooth
transition into high-volume production.

         We believe that reference-design manufacturers in the wireless and
broadband market will continue to play an ever-increasing role in the future of
these markets. Therefore, we believe it is essential that we maintain strong
relationships in partnering with these companies to penetrate market
opportunities in the U.S. market and abroad.

         Our policy is to provide our customers with applications engineering
support at our customers' design locations and factories throughout the world,
generally within 48 hours of a customer request. Our sales are made pursuant to
customer purchase orders.

Manufacturing, Assembly and Testing

         Manufacturing

         We fabricate substantially all of our integrated circuits in our
six-inch diameter GaAs wafer fab in Warren, New Jersey and in our two-inch
diameter InP fab in Camarillo, California.

                                       9
<PAGE>

         Our Warren facility has a 19,000 square foot fab, including 10,000
square feet of Class 100 "clean room" space. Based on physical floor space,
weekly production capacity at the Warren facility is approximately 1,600
equivalent six-inch MESFET wafers (adjusting for the additional mask layers, or
processing steps, inherent in HBT production). Based on equipment currently
installed, present weekly capacity is 800 equivalent six-inch MESFET wafers,
although this space can be equipped to expand capacity as market conditions
require. On the basis of equivalent four-inch MESFET wafers, which is the
industry norm, present weekly capacity is 1,800 wafers per week. See "Risk
Factors - We may face constraints on our manufacturing capacity which would
limit our ability to increase sales volumes."

         Our InP fab in Camarillo is a 22,000 square foot facility with 2,000
and 6,000 square feet of fab and assembly clean room, respectively. Production
capacity is currently 50 InP wafers per week per shift.

         Our six-inch diameter InGaP HBT process, including a backside VIA hole
process, was among the first in the industry and is the technology platform for
our newer-generation PA module wireless applications. The advantages of better
performance over a range of temperatures and higher reliability lead to smaller
chip sizes and thus lower cost. InGaP also allows for more robust manufacturing
because the material has the advantage of a selective etch process not possible
with AlGaAs.

         Our wafer processing technologies have been developed for low cost,
high yield, rapid throughput and short cycle-time manufacturing. Our GaAs MESFET
process uses ion implant variations to optimize performance and yield, allowing
us to produce high-linearity, low-noise, receiver integrated circuits or
transmitter integrated circuits with high power and efficiency. MESFET is the
technology platform underlying the majority of our broadband products.

         Our GaAs pHEMT manufacturing process achieves extremely high electron
mobility. Devices manufactured using this process have better sensitivity and
bandwidth than conventional MESFET devices, and offer better stability at higher
frequencies. The pHEMT process is an enabling technology for our wireless switch
products.

         Our Warren manufacturing processes were first certified as ISO 9001
compliant in December 1993. Since that time, we have updated our compliance to
the ISO 9001:2000 upgrade of this standard.

         Our manufacturing process technology includes our two-inch InP process
in Camarillo. InP applications for discrete active devices are widespread in
communications networking, making it the natural starting place for wholesale
integration of passive devices for a complete system on a chip. As a
semiconductor material, InP can provide all-in-one integrated functionality that
includes light generation, detection, amplification, high-speed modulation and
switching, as well as passive splitting, combining and routing. The same
material can be used to make high-speed modulators, switches, amplifiers and
detectors, or just passive waveguides for interconnecting these diverse devices.

         Assembly

         Fabricated GaAs wafers are shipped to contractors in Asia for packaging
into monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs) or for assembly into
standard plastic lead frame-based packaging or modules.

         The components within mobile phones have become increasingly
integrated, enabling the development of ever smaller, lighter, and more
efficient phones. However, integration in the RF subsystem at the IC level is
considerably more challenging, given that various components require different
manufacturing processes for optimal performance. Typical RF processes include
pHEMT, MESFET, HBT, and RF CMOS. The choice of process for various RFICs is
typically based on a trade-off between performance (often measured by efficiency
and linearity) and cost. In general, the process selection will depend on the
relative weight given to performance versus cost. In low-end phones, cost will
dominate, and less-efficient, less-costly components will be used. On the other
hand, in high-end phones, the emphasis will shift to better performance.

         Since the processes cannot be easily or economically integrated onto a
single die, multi-chip modules that combine multiple die within a single package
have taken hold, enabling the selection of the optimal process technology for
each IC within the package, while providing enhanced integration at the system
level. These solutions generate significant size and weight reductions in
handset component circuitry, while simultaneously increasing the reliability of
the components.

         A number of challenges, outlined below, are being overcome as we become
a fully integrated module manufacturer:

         Design complexity: Within a cellphone, the RF section arguably
         represents the greatest design challenge for engineers. Modules place
         the burden of designing and optimizing RF front-end subsystems on RFIC
         manufacturers. The suppliers must focus on providing the optimal IC
         process (e.g., InGaP HBT for PAs) and then integrate the technology
         into a well-designed module that also incorporates additional passive
         and control circuitry. The quality of the RF module design ultimately
         drives the device's performance and manufacturability.

                                       10
<PAGE>

         Increased cost: Modules can be substantially more expensive to produce
         than individual IC components. Modules often require extensive design
         and engineering expertise, new production processes, and additional
         assembly costs. In many cases, the necessary components (e.g.,
         discretes and passives) must be purchased from outside vendors.
         Consequently, the gross margin is generally lower for modules than for
         discrete RF MMICs.

         Manufacturing challenges: In addition to the increased costs of
         designing modules, achieving sufficient yields on new products can be
         problematic. Previously, RFIC companies had little or no experience in
         manufacturing modules. As a result, our gross margins were under
         pressure as we progressed on the learning curve. In order to attain
         high "final test" yields, the challenge continues to be to achieve high
         yields in the fab, in assembly, and in test.

         It is clear that modules result in our customers getting their product
to market more rapidly at a lower overall end-product cost to our customers due
largely to the reduced parts count and reduction in engineering effort by our
customers. We believe we are well positioned to address the shift toward
multi-chip modules because we possess both extensive process breadth (a key
advantage, as modules typically incorporate numerous process technologies) and a
large portfolio of RF expertise (e.g., PAs, switches, transceivers, filters, and
discretes).

         Final Test

         After assembly, packaged integrated circuits are tested prior to
shipment to our customers. Increasingly, these test activities are being
performed by third party contractors in Asia.

          Early in 2002, we announced an agreement with Universal
Communications, Inc. ("UCOMM") for the outsourcing of the majority of our
production RF testing operations. Under the agreement, the production RF testing
operation was transferred closer to our module assembly contractors in Asia,
which added considerable efficiencies to the device manufacturing process and
further reduced product cycle times and manufacturing costs.

         In line with our procedure of 100% RF testing of all parts before
shipping, the majority of production testing is now performed by UCOMM. This
agreement supports our initiative to reduce manufacturing costs by lowering test
cost per unit.

         See "Risk Factors - We depend on foreign semiconductor assembly
contractors and a loss of an assembly contractor could result in delays or
reductions in product shipment," "The manufacturing of our products could be
delayed as a result of the outsourcing of our test operations" and "We may face
constraints on our manufacturing capacity which would limit our ability to
increase sales volumes."

Raw Materials

         GaAs wafers, InP wafers, HBT/pHEMT epitaxial wafers, passive
components, other raw materials, and equipment used in the production of our
integrated circuits are available from a limited number of sources. See "Risk
Factors - Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited
which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments."

Research and Development

         We have made significant investments in our proprietary processes,
including product design, wafer fabrication and integrated circuit testing,
which we believe gives us a competitive advantage. Research and development
expenses were $37.8 million, $29.7 million, and $32.1 million in 2001, 2002, and
2003, respectively. Our research and development efforts in 2001 were primarily
focused on developing high yield, low cost, high volume production of InGaP HBT
integrated circuit products for the wireless and broadband communications
markets. In 2002, development activities focused on improving performance
relative to the size of our CDMA products and developing products to compete in
the GSM market. In 2003, our activities included the continued development and
expansion of products offered to the GSM and emerging WLAN markets.

         As of December 31, 2003, we had approximately 146 engineers assigned
primarily to research and development.

         Our wireless power amplifier capability has expanded from
plastic-packaged GaAs RF integrated circuit products to RF modules incorporating
multiple technologies. This capability is critical to encapsulating RF
intellectual property and know-how into a module that may be used to shrink the
time-to-market for cellular phone manufacturers. Our RF power amplifier modules
use a multi-layer laminate substrate to combine our proprietary InGaP HBT power
amplifier integrated circuits with custom-designed CMOS controllers and passive
components.

                                       11
<PAGE>

         Module integration capability required extending our design tools in
several dimensions. Electromagnetic simulation of laminate substrates to design
embedded passive components and model parasitic effects were added to our RF
design tool set. In addition, the ability to simulate at the module level was
greatly enhanced through our partnership with a leading manufacturer of
electronic design automation tools.

         Additionally, several silicon CMOS components were developed to support
our module efforts. We currently do not intend to manufacture this technology
in-house, as we believe there will be adequate external foundry capacity
available. See "Risk Factors - Sources for certain components, materials and
equipment are limited, which could result in delays or reductions in product
shipments."

Customers

       We receive most of our revenues from a few significant customers. See
"Risk Factors - We depend on a small number of customers; a loss of or a
decrease in purchases and/or change in purchasing patterns by one of these
customers would materially and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to
forecast revenue."

Employees

         As of December 31, 2003, we had 480 employees, including five employees
in Denmark who were members of the Danish Engineering Union. We believe our
labor relations to be good and we have never experienced a work stoppage. During
the year our workforce increased by 26 employees, consisting primarily of
engineers working in our two acquired businesses.

Competition

         Competition in all of the markets for our current products is intense;
competition is on the basis of performance, price and delivery. Our competitors
in the wireless market are suppliers of both discrete devices and integrated
circuits, and include Hitachi, Ltd., RF Micro Devices, Inc., Skyworks Solutions,
Inc. and certain of our customers who design and fabricate their own in-house
solutions.

         Within the Broadband markets, which include the cable television, WLAN
and fiber optic markets, our competitors are also primarily manufacturers of
both discrete components and integrated circuits. Our competitors include Analog
Devices, Inc., Applied Micro Circuits Corp., Conexant Systems, Inc., Maxim
Integrated Products, Inc., Microsemi Corp., Microtune, Inc. and Vitesse
Semiconductor Corp., as well as certain of our customers who design and
fabricate their own in-house solutions.

         Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial,
technical, manufacturing and marketing resources. Increased competition could
adversely affect our revenue and profitability through price reductions or
reduced demand for our products. See "Risk Factors - We face intense
competition, which could result in a decrease in our products' prices and
sales."

Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights

         It is our practice to seek U.S. and foreign patent and copyright
protection on our products and developments where appropriate and to protect our
valuable technology under U.S. and foreign laws affording protection for trade
secrets and for semiconductor chip designs. We own 33 U.S. patents and have ten
pending U.S. patent applications and one pending foreign patent application
filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. The U.S. patents were issued between
1992 and 2003 and will expire between 2009 and 2022.

         We rely primarily upon trade secrets, technical know-how and other
unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and
manufacturing activities. To protect our trade secrets, technical know-how and
other proprietary information, our employees are required to enter into
agreements providing for maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of
rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. We have also entered into
non-disclosure agreements to protect our confidential information delivered to
third parties in conjunction with possible corporate collaborations and for
other purposes. See "Risk Factors - We may not be successful in protecting our
own intellectual property rights or in avoiding claims that we infringed on the
intellectual property rights of others."

Environmental Matters

         Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental
laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may
have adverse effects on human health or the environment. These laws, regulations
or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediating, and for certain
damages resulting from, sites of past releases of hazardous materials. We
believe that we currently conduct, and have conducted, our activities and
operations in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws, and
that costs arising from existing environmental laws will not have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you, however, that
the environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we
will not incur significant costs in the future in order to comply with these
laws. See "Risk Factors - We are subject to stringent environmental regulation
both domestically and abroad."

                                       12
<PAGE>

Available Information

         Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.anadigics.com) as
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with,
or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

 ******************************************************************************


                                  RISK FACTORS

CERTAIN STATEMENTS IN THIS REPORT ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (AS THAT TERM
IS DEFINED IN THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED) THAT INVOLVE
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS CAN GENERALLY BE
IDENTIFIED AS SUCH BECAUSE THE CONTEXT OF THE STATEMENT WILL INCLUDE WORDS SUCH
AS WE "BELIEVE", "ANTICIPATE", "EXPECT" OR WORDS OF SIMILAR IMPORT. SIMILARLY,
STATEMENTS THAT DESCRIBE OUR FUTURE PLANS, OBJECTIVES, ESTIMATES OR GOALS ARE
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. THE CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS MADE IN THIS REPORT SHOULD
BE READ AS BEING APPLICABLE TO ALL RELATED FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WHEREVER
THEY APPEAR IN THIS REPORT. IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS
AND DEVELOPMENTS TO BE MATERIALLY DIFFERENT FROM THOSE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED BY
THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS PRESENTED HEREIN INCLUDE THE RISK FACTORS
DISCUSSED BELOW, AS WELL AS THOSE DISCUSSED ELSEWHERE HEREIN.

         IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, THE
FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED CAREFULLY IN EVALUATING AN
INVESTMENT IN ANADIGICS, INC. AND IN ANALYZING OUR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.

                           Risks Related to ANADIGICS

Our results of operations can vary significantly.

         The semiconductor industry has been cyclical, seasonal and subject to
significant downturns. Since the beginning of 2001, the industry has experienced
market weaknesses that have created lower order demand, production overcapacity,
high inventory levels, and accelerated declines in average selling prices for
our products, which is expected to continue in the future. These elements have
continued to negatively affect our operating results.

         Our results of operations have been subject to significant quarterly
fluctuations. As a result, we may experience substantial period-to-period
fluctuations in future operating results. Investors should not rely on our
results of operations for any previous period as an indicator of what results
may be for any future period.

         We cannot accurately predict whether or when demand will strengthen
across our product lines. If we are unable to reverse the recent trend of
revenue declines and net losses, either because the economy does not improve or
because we under-perform, our ability to compete in a very difficult market may
be materially and adversely affected.

Our decline in revenue and underutilized manufacturing capacity have adversely
affected our gross margins and profitability.

         Our manufacturing infrastructure and capacity was established to
address significantly higher volume levels and consequently we have
underutilized manufacturing capacity. Many of our expenses, particularly those
relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are fixed.
Accordingly, our fixed production costs increase as a percent of revenues during
a period of declining revenues, which adversely affects our gross margin and
profitability. In the future, improved utilization of our manufacturing capacity
will primarily depend on continued growth in demand for our wireless products.
Our ability to reduce expenses is further constrained because we must continue
to invest in research and development in order to maintain our competitive
position.

We depend on a small number of customers; a loss of or a decrease in purchases
and/or change in purchasing patterns by one of these customers would materially
and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to forecast revenue.

         We receive most of our revenues from a few significant customers and
their subcontractors. Sales to Kyocera, Motorola and LG Electronics accounted
for 28%, 14% and 14%, respectively, of total net sales during 2003. Sales to our
greater than 10% customers has exceeded 55% of total revenues in each of the
last three years. Our operating results have been materially and adversely
affected in the past by the failure of anticipated orders to be realized and by
deferrals or cancellations of orders as a result of changes in customer
requirements. If we were to lose Kyocera, Motorola, LG Electronics or another
major customer, or if sales to these customers were to decrease materially,
results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.

                                       13
<PAGE>

         Several of our customers have reduced the lead times on orders placed
with us for our products. While this trend has enabled us to reduce our
inventories, it also restricts our ability to forecast future revenues. We
cannot predict whether a change in order demand patterns or lead times from
customers will take place.

We will need to keep pace with rapid product and process development and
technological changes as well as product cost reductions to be competitive.

         Rapid changes in both product and process technologies characterize the
markets for our products. Because these technologies are continually evolving,
we believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to
continue to improve the efficiencies of our product and process technologies and
rapidly develop new products and process technologies. If a competing technology
emerges that is, or is perceived to be, superior to our existing technology and
we are unable to develop and/or implement the new technology successfully or to
develop and implement a competitive and economic alternative technology, our
results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We will need
to make substantial investments to develop these enhancements and technologies,
and we cannot assure investors that funds for these investments will be
available or that these enhancements and technologies will be successful.

Our products have experienced rapidly declining unit prices.

         In each of the markets where we compete, prices of established products
tend to decline significantly over time. Accordingly, in order to remain
competitive, we believe that we must continue to develop product enhancements
and new technologies that will either slow the price declines of our products or
reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products. If we fail to do so,
our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and
adversely affected.

The variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins.

         Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending
on the complexity of a particular integrated circuit's design and our experience
in manufacturing that type of integrated circuit. We have experienced
difficulties in achieving planned yields in the past, particularly in
pre-production and upon initial commencement of full production volumes, which
have adversely affected our gross margins.

         Regardless of the process technology used, the fabrication of
integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the
fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected
or numerous integrated circuits on each wafer to be nonfunctional, thereby
reducing yields. These difficulties can include:

         o        defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns
                  onto our wafers;
         o        impurities in the materials used;
         o        contamination of the manufacturing environment; and
         o        equipment failure.

         Many of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed and average
selling prices for our products tend to decline over time. Therefore, it is
critical for us to improve the number of shippable integrated circuits per wafer
and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain and improve
our results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher
unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results
and have done so in the past. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer
periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new
products or introduction of new process technologies. In either case, our
results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely
affected.

We depend on foreign semiconductor assembly contractors and a loss of an
assembly contractor could result in delays or reductions in product shipment.

         We do not assemble our integrated circuits or multi-chip modules.
Instead, we provide the integrated circuit die and, in some cases, packaging and
other components to assembly vendors located primarily in Asia. We maintain two
qualified service suppliers for each assembly process. If we are unable to
obtain sufficient high quality and timely assembly service, or if we lose one of
our current assembly vendors, or if we experience delays in transferring our
production between assembly vendors, or if means of transportation to our
vendors are interrupted, we would experience delays or reductions in product
shipment, and/or reduced product yields, that could materially and adversely
affect our results of operations and financial condition.

                                       14
<PAGE>

The manufacturing of our products could be delayed as a result of the
outsourcing of our test operations.

         We outsource most of the testing of certain of our products to test
houses or vendors overseas, primarily in Asia. The failure of these test houses
or other third parties to maintain our standards of testing or complete the
testing process of our products in a timely manner, could subject us to
manufacturing delays and delivery of products to customers, which could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In
addition to the test houses, we also test some of our products internally.

The short life cycles of some of our products may leave us with obsolete or
excess inventories.

         The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life
cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. For example, we
estimate that current life cycles for cellular and PCS telephone handsets, and
in turn our cellular and PCS products, are approximately 12 to 24 months.
Products with short life cycles require us to manage production and inventory
levels closely. We cannot assure investors that obsolete or excess inventories,
which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for
our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our
products are designed, will not affect us beyond the inventory charges taken in
the past.

Our announced restructuring plans may have insufficiently addressed market
conditions.

         In 2001, 2002 and 2003, we announced restructuring plans in response to
a sharp downturn in our industry. Under our restructuring plans, we have
incurred charges relating to reductions in our workforce, impairments of certain
manufacturing and research fixed assets, and the consolidation of facilities.
From January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2003, our workforce was reduced by over
25%, primarily through restructuring initiatives. We may have incorrectly
anticipated the extent of the long-term market decline for our products and
services and we may be forced to restructure further or may incur further
operating charges due to poor business conditions.

We face intense competition, which could result in a decrease in our products'
prices and sales.

         The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is
characterized by rapid technological change. We compete primarily with
manufacturers of discrete gallium arsenide and silicon semiconductors and with
manufacturers of gallium arsenide and silicon integrated circuits. We expect
increased competition from:

         o        other gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturers who
                  may replace us as a supplier to our market customers or
                  otherwise dilute our sales to them;
         o        silicon analog integrated circuit manufacturers; and
         o        companies which may penetrate the radio frequency/microwave
                  integrated circuit communications market with other
                  breakthrough technologies.

Increased competition could result in:

         o        decreased prices of our integrated circuits;
         o        reduced demand for our products; and
         o        a reduction in our ability to recover development-engineering
                  costs.

         Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

         Most of our current and potential competitors, including Hitachi Ltd.,
Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Microtune Inc., Motorola, RF Micro Devices Inc.
and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. have significantly greater financial, technical,
manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We cannot assure investors
that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors.

We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when
we need it.

         In the future, we may need to access sources of financing to fund our
growth. Taking into consideration our cash balance including marketable
securities of $121.6 million and our $66.7 million in outstanding convertible
subordinated notes due November 2006, we believe that our existing sources of
liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, will be
sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditure, working
capital and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months.

         However, there is no assurance that the capital required to fund these
expenses will be available in the future. Conditions existing in the U.S.
capital markets when we seek financing, as well as the then current condition of
the Company will affect our ability to raise capital, as well as the terms of
any financing. We may not be able to raise enough capital to meet our capital
needs on a timely basis or at all. Failure to obtain capital when required would
have a material adverse affect on the Company.

                                       15
<PAGE>

         In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may
make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. We
cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these investments and
acquisitions will be available in the future.

We may pursue selective acquisitions and alliances and the management and
integration of additional operations could be expensive and could divert
management time and acquisitions may dilute the ownership of our current
shareholders.

         As part of our strategy, we will selectively pursue acquisitions and
alliances. Our ability to complete acquisitions or alliances is dependent upon,
and may be limited by, the availability of suitable candidates and capital. In
addition, acquisitions and alliances involve risks that could materially
adversely affect our operating results, including the management time that may
be diverted from operations in order to pursue and complete such transactions
and difficulties in integrating and managing the additional operations and
personnel of acquired companies. We cannot assure investors that we will be able
to obtain the capital necessary to consummate acquisitions or alliances on
satisfactory terms, if at all. Further, any businesses that we acquire will
likely have their own capital needs, which may be significant, which we would be
called upon to satisfy independent of the acquisition price. Future acquisitions
or alliances could result in additional debt, equity, costs and contingent
liabilities, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition. Any such additional debt could subject us to
substantial and burdensome covenants and any such equity could be materially
dilutive to existing stockholders. The growth that may result from future
acquisitions or alliances may place significant strains on our resources,
systems and management. If we are unable to effectively manage such growth by
implementing systems, expanding our infrastructure and hiring, training and
managing employees, our ability to offer our products could be materially
harmed.

We depend heavily on key personnel.

         Our success depends in part on keeping key technical, marketing, sales
and management personnel. We must also continue to attract qualified personnel.
The competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people
with experience, particularly in radio frequency engineering, integrated circuit
design, and technical marketing and support, is limited. We cannot be sure that
we will be able to attract and retain other skilled personnel in the future.

Our international sales and operations involve foreign exchange risks.

         Sales to customers located outside North America (based on shipping
addresses and not on the locations of ultimate end users) accounted for 65%, 46%
and 49% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003,
respectively. We expect that revenues derived from international sales will
continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales.

         In addition, independent third parties located in Asia supply a
substantial portion of the starting wafers and packaging components that we use
in the production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits, and assemble and test
nearly all of our products.

         Due to our reliance on international sales and foreign suppliers,
assemblers and test houses, we are subject to risks of conducting business
outside of the United States, including primarily those arising from currency
fluctuations, which could affect the price of our products and/or the cost of
producing them.

Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited, which could
result in delays or reductions in product shipments.

           We do not manufacture any of the starting wafers, packaging or
passive components used in the production of our gallium arsenide integrated
circuits. Wafers and packaging components are available from a limited number of
sources. If we are unable to obtain these wafers or components in the required
quantities and quality, we could experience delays or reductions in product
shipments, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations
and financial condition.

           We depend on a limited number of vendors to supply equipment used in
our manufacturing processes. When demand for semiconductor manufacturing
equipment is high, lead times for delivery of such equipment can be substantial.
We cannot assure investors that we would not lose potential sales if required
manufacturing equipment is unavailable and, as a result, we are unable to
maintain or increase our production levels.

We may face constraints on our manufacturing capacity which would limit our
ability to increase sales volumes.

         We believe that our expanded six-inch wafer fabrication facility should
be able to satisfy our forecasted production needs. However, if production
volumes were to increase significantly from expected levels, we might be
required to hire, train and manage additional production personnel in order to
successfully increase production capacity at our facility. We cannot assure
investors that we would be able to implement these changes successfully. A delay
for any reason in increasing capacity would limit our ability to increase sales
volumes. In addition, if we fail to increase production and do not have
sufficient capacity to satisfy the demand for our products, our relationships
with customers could be harmed.

                                       16
<PAGE>

We may face interruptions in our manufacturing processes.

         Our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption,
including for causes beyond our control. The fabrication of integrated circuits
is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of multiple steps. It
requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. Minor impurities,
contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of the
fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer,
defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can
cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each
wafer to malfunction. Because our operating results are highly dependent upon
our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields,
these factors present could have a material adverse affect on our business. In
addition, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they
have been shipped, which may require us to replace such products.

         Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring
disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities or those of our
subcontractors. These disruptions may include electrical power outages, fire,
earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, or other natural or man-made
disasters. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations could cause significant
delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected
facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor. In the event of
such delays, we cannot assure investors that the required alternative capacity,
particularly wafer production capacity, would be available on a timely basis or
at all. Even if alternative wafer production or assembly and test capacity is
available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could
result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain
sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities
or through external manufacturing or similar arrangements with others.

         Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated
circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption at the Warren, New
Jersey semiconductor wafer fabrication facility, alternative gallium arsenide
production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources.
These disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

We are subject to stringent environmental regulation both domestically and
abroad.

         We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements
governing the protection of the environment. These environmental regulations
include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of
toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in or resulting from our
manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with environmental laws could subject
us to substantial liability or force us to significantly change our
manufacturing operations. In addition, under some of these laws and regulations,
we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties
are contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination.

We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or in
avoiding claims that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of others.

         Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and
copyrights, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on
the proprietary rights of third parties. As is typical in the semiconductor
industry, we have been notified, and may be notified in the future, that we may
be infringing on certain patent and/or other intellectual property rights of
others. We are currently reviewing a claim alleging that we are or may be
infringing certain patents. We cannot assure investors that we will not be
subject to patent litigation to defend our products or processes against claims
of patent infringement or other intellectual property claims. Any such
litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. If
we determine that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of
others, we cannot assure investors that we would be able to obtain any required
licenses on commercially reasonable terms.

         In addition to patent and copyright protection, we also rely on trade
secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented proprietary information
relating to our product development and manufacturing activities, which we seek
to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators and
employees. We cannot assure investors that these agreements will not be
breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade
secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or
independently discovered by others.

                                       17
<PAGE>

Provisions in our governing documents and our shareholders' rights agreement
could discourage takeovers and prevent shareholders from realizing an investment
premium.

         Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws could
have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of
discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our Company.
These provisions include the ability of the board of directors to designate the
rights and preferences of preferred stock and issue such shares without
shareholder approval, our staggered board of directors, and our advance notice
requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition,
the Company has adopted a shareholders' rights agreement that may make it more
difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire the Company. Any of the
foregoing could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay
in the future for shares of our common stock.

We have had significant volatility in our stock price and it may fluctuate in
the future. Therefore, the ability to sell shares of common stock at or above
the price paid for them may be difficult.

         The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate
significantly. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including:

         o        our performance and prospects;
         o        the performance and prospects of our major customers;
         o        the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock;
         o        investor perception of us and the industry in which we
                  operate;
         o        changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by
                  analysts;
         o        general financial and other market conditions; and
         o        domestic and international economic conditions.

         Public stock markets have experienced, and are currently experiencing,
extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology
sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market
prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently
unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of
these companies. These broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely
affect the market price of our common stock.

         In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings
multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading
investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating
price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly
basis.

