ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

Overview

         We supply radio frequency/microwave integrated circuit solutions to the
communications industry, enabling manufacturers to enhance overall system
performance and reduce manufacturing cost and time to market. In the wireless
market we focus on applications (or solutions) for cellular and personal
communications systems handsets. In the broadband market we focus on
applications for cable television systems, cable modems and fiber optic
communications systems. We believe our competitive advantages are our design,
development and applications expertise, our high-volume, low-cost GaAs
technology manufacturing expertise and our strong working relationships with
leading original equipment manufacturers in our target markets.

         We design, develop and manufacture our integrated circuits primarily
using gallium arsenide or GaAs semiconductor material with MESFET and PHEMT
process technologies. We are currently in the process of developing products
using heterojunction bipolar transistor or HBT technology, which we believe will
reduce design complexity and power usage for our next-generation power
amplifiers. We recently began production in our new six-inch diameter analog
GaAs wafer fabrication facility, which we believe to be the first and only
six-inch diameter analog GaAs wafer fabrication facility in our industry. Using
a six-inch diameter wafer allows us to produce, at a small incremental cost,
more than twice the integrated circuit dice per wafer than can be produced from
the industry norm four-inch wafer. With our strong fabrication capability,
significant management expertise and innovative designs, we believe we can
rapidly develop products in line with market requirements.

Industry Background

         Over the last decade there have been remarkable developments in
electronic communications, as evidenced by the emergence of wireless
communications, internet services and digital television services. Radio
frequency/microwave and integrated circuit technologies have enabled increases
in communications capacity and significant reductions in systems costs. The
wireless and broadband communications markets are beneficiaries of current
technological trends, including higher frequencies, digital modulation and
higher levels of electronic integration.

         Wireless communications, led by cellular and personal communications
systems or PCS telephone services, are growing rapidly and wireless services are
replacing wireline telephone services in some markets. According to Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter, worldwide unit sales of cellular/PCS wireless handsets were
282.2 million in 1999. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter forecasts cellular/PCS
wireless handset unit sales to be 1.4 billion in 2003, which represents a
1999-2003 compound annual growth rate of approximately 50%.

         Broadband markets are also benefiting from these technological changes.
Cable television systems are moving from one-way analog TV signal distribution
systems to interactive digital systems offering increased and new video content,
internet connection services and telephony. The increased demand for
communication services, such as the internet, is also driving expansion of fiber
optic telecommunications networks.

         Given these developments, original equipment manufacturers are facing
the following challenges:

         o        Shorter cycle times. In the wireless communications market,
                  handset manufacturers must bring new products to market
                  quickly in order to maintain their market position. We see new
                  handset platforms being introduced every six months;

         o        Need for low-cost products. Handset and set-top boxes are
                  increasingly becoming consumer-driven products. The wide use
                  of these products forces original equipment manufacturers to
                  offer them at attractive prices. As a result, suppliers of
                  components must be cost effective in order for original
                  equipment manufacturers to stay competitive; and

         o        Stronger supplier relationships. The digital, wireless, cable
                  and fiber optic industries are standards driven. Companies in
                  the communications industry must work very closely with their
                  suppliers in order to develop new products. Companies
                  therefore limit themselves to a small number of suppliers in
                  order to keep their competitive advantages.





                                       2
<PAGE>




The GaAs Advantage

         Over the past fifteen years, through our research and development
efforts, we have developed expertise in producing cost-effective GaAs-based
integrated circuits for high-volume commercial applications which offer the
performance attributes required for radio frequency/microwave applications that
are not easily obtainable with silicon-based integrated circuits. GaAs
transistors can operate at frequencies up to three to five times greater than
those possible with silicon and therefore can handle the requirements of radio
frequency/microwave applications. GaAs integrated circuits have a lower noise
figure than silicon-based integrated circuits, providing increased sensitivity,
less distortion and interference and better dynamic range, thereby enabling
systems to handle a wide range of signal strengths. GaAs is a semi-insulating
material which facilitates integration of the passive components required in
radio frequency/microwave applications. Finally, GaAs integrated circuits used
in transmitter applications are also more power-efficient than silicon-based
circuits, allowing for longer battery life or use of smaller batteries.

Our Strategy

         Our objective is to be the leading supplier of radio frequency
integrated circuits for the wireless and broadband communications markets. The
cornerstone of our strategy is to capitalize on opportunities in the wireless
and broadband communications markets by addressing applications which leverage
our radio frequency integrated circuit design and manufacturing expertise and
our established relationships with leading original equipment manufacturers in
these markets. The key elements of our strategy are to:

         Be First-to-Market with Proprietary Value-Added Products

         We intend to continue to design timely, cost-effective integrated
circuit solutions for our target markets. The combination of our experienced
engineering staff and our "quick-turn" wafer fabrication and assembly service
allows us to develop prototypes that can be ready for testing in less than one
month. This design efficiency contributes to customer satisfaction and allows us
to improve product designs rapidly for manufacturing efficiency. For example, we
were the first manufacturer to offer an integrated circuit chip set for tuner
applications in cable television set-top boxes. We were also the first
manufacturer to offer a dual-band power amplifier that combines the functions of
two power amplifiers for cellular handsets into a single integrated circuit.

         Capitalize on Our World Class Manufacturing Capabilities

         We will continue to focus on improving manufacturing performance and
customer service, while reducing costs. We believe that we can effectively
control the critical phases of our production process in order to realize high
manufacturing yields, product quality and customer satisfaction. A key element
of our manufacturing strategy is our new six-inch wafer fabrication facility. We
believe this new facility will provide increased manufacturing capacities at a
low incremental cost and will allow us to maintain short cycle times.

         Forge Strong Customer Relationships

         We have developed strong working relationships with our customers, many
of whom are leading original equipment manufacturers in their markets. Because
our target markets are standards-driven, customer relationships are important.
We have been working with Ericsson on wireless handsets since 1994 and with
General Instrument on cable set-top boxes since 1992. These relationships
provide us with product development opportunities and the ability to anticipate
future market needs. The rapid feedback we receive from customers during the
product design phase increases the likelihood that our products will meet our
customers' cost and performance requirements.

         Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances

         We intend to pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances to expand and
improve upon our technologies, industry expertise, products and market share. We
expect that our alliances and acquisitions will be complementary to our current
businesses and will enhance our ability to work with leading original equipment
manufacturers to develop next generation solutions. We have formed strategic
alliances with several firms to accelerate our capabilities in our core wireless
and broadband markets. For example, during 1999 we entered into an agreement
with Global Communication Semiconductors, Inc. to develop HBT technology. We
also entered into an agreement with TEMIC Semiconductor GmbH during 1999 to
develop HBT products suitable for fabrication with silicon germanium.




                                       3
<PAGE>


Target Markets and Products

         Wireless Communications. The wireless communications market is a
growing, dynamic market as a result of increasing demand for:

         o    portable voice and data communications;
         o    smaller, lighter handsets offering increased functionality;
         o    reliable access and voice quality comparable to land lines; and
         o    longer talk-time and standby time.

         Our radio frequency integrated circuit products are used in
transmitters and receivers of cellular and PCS handsets where small size,
multi-band operation and low power consumption are key features. In the United
States, there are two primary digital cellular standards, TDMA and CDMA. GSM is
the most widely deployed digital standard in the world, with a high degree of
acceptance in Europe and Asia. In addition, some GSM systems have been deployed
in North America. We currently provide power amplifiers primarily for the TDMA
and GSM standards and plan to introduce power amplifiers for the CDMA standard
in 2000. We also offer infrastructure products for the TDMA and GSM standards.

         We are actively developing single-band and multi-band HBT power
amplifier modules for all major digital standards. HBT technology offers high
efficiency and low power consumption, as well as a lower total solution cost for
power amplifiers. This will allow our customers to build the transmitter section
of the wireless handset more easily and more quickly by reducing design
complexity and component counts. We intend to begin production of HBT wafers in
our own manufacturing facilities in the third quarter of 2000. We are also in
production and are continuing our development of a comprehensive family of
standard and custom radio frequency switches targeting handset applications
using GaAs MESFET, PHEMT and Silicon technologies. We believe that the market
for radio frequency/microwave switches will grow rapidly with the move to
multi-band, multi-mode handsets.

         Our principal customers in the wireless market are Ericsson and 3Com,
Inc. (now Palm Inc.). Ericsson accounted for 33%, 34%, and 47% of our net sales
during 1997, 1998, and 1999, respectively. During February 2000, ANADIGICS
received multi-million unit orders for its linear RF switches from Motorola.
Production shipments of these switches began in February 2000.

         The following table sets forth information regarding our principal
products in the wireless communications market:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

  Product                                    Application
  -------                                    -----------
<S>                                          <C>
Power and Driver Amplifiers:

 o   Single-band, single-mode                Used in the transmitter section of cellular
     power amplifiers                        handsets to send voice or data

 o   Multi-band, multi-mode                  Used in the transmitter section of
     power amplifiers                        cellular handsets to send voice or data
                                             over multiple frequencies and standards
                                             thereby allowing a service provider to
                                             handle more calls

 o   Multi-band, multi-mode                  Used to drive a power amplifier
     driver amplifiers

 o   Integrated high power amplifiers        Used in cellular base stations in the
                                             transmit chain

 o   Dual-band 3-Volt HBT power              Used in transmitter section of cellular
     amplifiers*                             handsets to send voice or data

 o   Modules*                                A "plug in" package, containing a power
                                             amplifier along with necessary components
                                             otherwise provided externally to the
                                             amplifier, which provides ease of use for
                                             our customer
 Radio Frequency Standard Products:

 o   Switches                                Used in cellular handsets and other
                                             wireless applications to switch between
                                             receive and transmit modes, multiple
                                             bands, and multiple antennas

 o   Receivers                               Used in cellular handsets to receive voice
                                             or data

* These products are at the sampling stage.

</TABLE>


                                        4
<PAGE>


        Cable Television/Cable Modems. The trends that currently drive product
development in the cable television and cable modem markets are:

         o        shift to digital cable television with interactive services;

         o        demand for high speed internet access; and

         o        emergence of cable telephony.

         The convergence of these trends, enabled by digital transmission,
creates the need for innovative radio frequency integrated circuits for cable
television and cable modem applications.

         Our cable products are used in cable modem, cable television set-top
box and cable television infrastructure applications. Cable television systems,
which traditionally delivered one-way analog television programming, limited to
a few entertainment channels, are increasingly used to deliver a wide array of
interactive video and other services, such as high speed internet access and
telephony. In order to support these new applications, cable system operators
must upgrade both the bandwidth (i.e., capacity) and quality of the
infrastructure and terminal equipment. The new equipment must also be able to
handle digital as well as analog modulated signals.

         For cable modems and cable television set-top boxes we currently offer
tuner integrated circuits which can be used in double conversion tuners to
receive analog and digital signals in the 50-860 megahertz frequency band. Our
reverse amplifiers are used in cable modems and in cable set-top boxes which
require a reverse path to provide interactivity. These tuner and reverse
amplifier integrated circuits enable our customers to accelerate and simplify
their designs, and reduce manufacturing complexity and costs. We also introduced
an integrated multi-chip double conversion data tuner module late in 1999. This
data tuner consists of an integrated upconverter with SAW filter and an
integrated downconverter with dual synthesizer. We expect that this data tuner
and other integrated multi-chip double conversion tuner modules will be
cost-competitive with single conversion tuners and will provide improved
performance for cable modem and other single-conversion tuner applications.

         We have also developed GaAs integrated circuit line amplifiers to be
used in 50-860 megahertz cable television infrastructure equipment, such as line
extenders, distribution amplifiers and system amplifiers. We have recently
expanded our product offerings in this area by introducing line amplifier
integrated circuits or ICs which operate at 24 volts and are thus more
compatible with current equipment.

         Our principal customers in the cable television and cable modem markets
are Electroline Equipment, General Instrument, Komatsu Murata Manufacturing
Company, Ltd., Motorola, Philips, Scientific-Atlanta, Hughes Network Systems,
Inc., and 3Com, Inc. In addition, we have been selected by Cisco Systems for
their Global Alliance cable modem design. The Global Alliance includes customers
such as Samsung and Sony. The following table sets forth information regarding
our principal products in the cable television/cable modems market:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                                  <C>
 Product                                              Application

 Cable and Broadcast Terminal Products:
     o Upconverters                                   Used in set-top box double conversion video tuner,
     o Downconverters                                 cable modems and to support cable telephony in the
                                                      video tuner


     o Synthesizers*                                  Used to provide precise frequency control in the same
                                                      applications as above


     o 256 QAM upconverters                           Used in the digital set-top box video tuner, providing
                                                      the necessary stability to handle the more complex
                                                      digital modulations

     o Reverse amplifiers                             Used in set-top boxes, cable modems and cable telephony to transmit
                                                      signals from a set-top box upstream to a cable company headend for
                                                      interactive applications

     o Data tuner*                                    Used in set-top boxes, cable modems and cable telephony handle
                                                      high-speed data, video, and voice signals


      * These products are at the
         sampling stage.

</TABLE>

                                        5
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Cable and Broadcast Infrastructure
   Products:

<S>                                                   <C>
    o  Line amplifiers                                Used in cable television systems to distribute signals
                                                      from cable headends to subscribers


    o  Drop amplifiers                                Used in cable television systems to amplify signals at
                                                      individual subscriber homes

</TABLE>

      Fiber Optic Market. Growth in the fiber optic market is being driven by:

      o    rapid increase in data traffic driven by internet use;

      o    increasing implementation of corporate local area networks (LAN)
           and storage area networks (SAN), which require high speed data
           transfer capability; and

      o    ongoing upgrade of existing telecommunication and data
           communication systems with fiber optic systems.

         Fiber optic telecommunication systems use low-loss fiber optic cable to
link central office switches with one another and to connect the central office
to the serving area. Most telecommunication networks today are based on SONET
(United States and Japan) or SDH (Europe) standards. These standards require
high sensitivity, high bandwidth, and wide dynamic range receivers.

         The front end of most fiber optic receivers contains a photodetector
and a transimpedance amplifier. Our transimpedance amplifier integrated circuits
are used in both fiber optic telecommunications and data communications
networks. Our GaAs integrated circuit transimpedance amplifiers are designed to
meet the requirements of SONET systems covering data speeds of OC-3, OC-12,
OC-24 and OC-48. We also sell products for use in the growing DWDM systems and
provide GaAs PHEMT-based next generation transimpedance amplifiers specifically
for DWDM and 3 volt applications. For data communications receivers we sell
integrated photodiode and transimpedance amplifier products for the short
wavelength (850 nanometer) and long wavelength (1300 nanometer) Gigabit Ethernet
and Fibre Channel standards. We are developing higher speed (2.5 gigabits per
second) receiver products for the data communications market in anticipation of
increased data speeds.

         Fiber optic data communications systems use either Fibre Channel or
Gigabit Ethernet standards to achieve high-speed data transfer. The Gigabit
Ethernet standard is emerging as the most widely used in local area networking
situations. It addresses the need for very fast transfers of large volumes of
information and is effective in applications where large blocks of data must be
transferred within buildings and over short distances. We believe that demand
for Gigabit Ethernet and Fibre Channel solutions will grow substantially over
the next few years.

         Our principal customers in the fiber optic market are Lucent, Methode,
and Nortel Networks. The following table sets forth information regarding our
principal products in the fiber optic market:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Product                                            Application
- -------                                            -----------

<S>                                                <C>
Fiber Products:

    o   Transimpedance amplifiers                  Used in the transceiver of a fiber optic link to
                                                   amplify signal received


    o  Metal semiconductor metal                   Used in the transceiver of a datacom fiber optic
       transimpedance amplifiers                   link to detect and amplify shorter wavelength
       (MSM-TIA)                                   optical signals

    o  Integrated Detector Preamp(IDP)             Used in the transceiver of a datacom fiber optic link
         transimpedance amplifiers                 to detect and amplify longer wavelength optical signals
           (PIN-TIA)
</TABLE>




                                       6
<PAGE>



Marketing, Sales, Distribution and Customer Support

         We primarily sell our products directly to our customers worldwide. We
have developed close working relationships with leading companies in the
broadband and wireless communications markets. During 1999, we began to expand
our field sales force to provide local support to our customers. We believe this
is critical to our objective of expanding our customer base, especially as we
expand our product portfolio. We also selectively use independent manufacturers'
representatives and distributors to complement our direct sales and customer
support efforts.

         We believe that the technical nature of our products and markets
demands an extraordinary commitment to close relationships with our customers.
The sales and marketing staff, assisted by the technical staff and senior
management, visit prospective and existing customers worldwide on a regular
basis, and between visits both field and factory sales personnel communicate
regularly with our customers. We believe that these contacts are vital to the
development of close, long-term working relationships with our customers, and in
obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and information regarding technical
and market trends.

         Our design and applications engineering staff is actively involved with
customers during all phases of design and production by publishing and providing
our customers with engineering data, up-to-date product application notes,
communicating with our customers' engineers on a regular basis and assisting in
resolving technical problems by working with our customers' engineers both on
and off site. In most cases the design and applications engineers obtain
prototypes from our customers in order to troubleshoot and identify potential
improvements to the design in parallel with our customers' efforts. This
strategy helps our customers speed up their design process, achieve
cost-effective and manufacturable designs, and ensure a smooth transition into
high-volume production.

         Our policy is to provide our customers with applications engineering
support at our customers' factories throughout the world, generally within 48
hours of a customer request. Our sales are typically made pursuant to customer
purchase orders, and such orders may be canceled by our customers without
penalty.

Manufacturing, Assembly and Testing

         We fabricate all of our integrated circuits in our six-inch diameter
GaAs wafer fabrication facility in a class 100 cleanroom in Warren, New Jersey.
Present production capacity is approximately 26,000 six-inch diameter analog
GaAs wafers per year. We are in the process of expanding our manufacturing
operations. This expansion includes additional class 100 cleanroom space and
equipment installation within our existing manufacturing facility. Capacity
within the expanded manufacturing operations is expected to be approximately
41,000 six-inch diameter analog GaAs wafers per year. See "Risk Factors - We may
face constraints on our manufacturing capacity which would limit our ability to
increase sales volumes".

         Our wafer processing technologies have been developed for low cost,
high yield, rapid throughput and short cycle-time manufacturing. We have
developed GaAs MESFET processes that we use to produce most of our products. By
using ion implant variations, we can optimize performance and yield, allowing us
to produce, for example, high-linearity, low-noise, receiver integrated circuits
or transmitter integrated circuits with high power and efficiency.

         We have also developed a GaAs PHEMT manufacturing process, which
achieves extremely high electron mobility. Devices manufactured using our PHEMT
manufacturing process have better sensitivity and bandwidth than conventional
MESFET devices and hence are an enabling technology that serves high bit rate
fiber optic systems. We have introduced devices for fiber optic communications
applications using our recently developed PHEMT manufacturing process.

         Fabricated wafers are shipped to contractors in Asia for assembly into
integrated circuit packages. Once assembled by the contractor, packaged
integrated circuits are shipped back to our Warren, New Jersey facility for
final testing. We believe that our flexible automated test systems are important
to our ability to manufacture high quality integrated circuits at a low cost. We
have devoted substantial amounts of capital over the last 18 months to increase
our product test capacity, resulting in shortened product cycle times, reduced
test-costs and improved test reliability. See "Risk Factors - We may face
constraints on our manufacturing capacity which would limit our ability to
increase sales volumes," "We may face constraints on our test capacity which
could result in manufacturing delays" and " We depend on foreign semiconductor
assembly contractors and a loss of an assembly contractor could result in delays
or reductions in product shipment".

         Our manufacturing processes were certified as ISO 9001 compliant in
December 1993. Since then, we have maintained compliance with this standard.




                                       7
<PAGE>





Raw Materials

         GaAs wafers, other raw materials, and equipment used in the production
of our integrated circuits are available from several suppliers. See "Risk
Factors--Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited
which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments".

Research and Development

         We have made significant investments in our proprietary processes,
including product design, wafer fabrication and integrated circuit testing,
which we believe gives us a competitive advantage. Research and development
expenses were $16.8 million, $18.8 million, and $29.7 million in 1997, 1998, and
1999, respectively. To date, our research and development efforts have focused
on developing low cost, high volume production of GaAs integrated circuit
products for the wireless and broadband communications markets. At December 31,
1999, we had approximately 100 engineers assigned primarily to research and
development.

         The ability to simulate and model circuits is a critical technology for
analog integrated circuit design, especially at high frequencies. We have
developed a set of simulation tools and device models, which are custom-fit to
our process. Recognizing the importance of powerful electronic design automation
tools, we have formed a partnership with a leading manufacturer of radio
frequency/analog electronic design automation systems to develop and enhance
design tools to improve our research and development efficiency. The
partnership's primary objectives are to improve circuit modeling, package
modeling, design tool training and design tool integration.

         We are also in the process of researching and developing other wafer
processing technologies. For our GaAs HBT technology we have formed both foundry
process and technology partnerships. These agreements generally require us to
share our expertise and proprietary technology over a limited time period with
our partner in exchange for access to their expertise and proprietary
technology. In addition, we have the right to obtain foundry services on
favorable terms. In certain cases we may pay licensing fees, reimburse expenses
and/or commit to purchase a portion of our wafer needs from the other party. As
a result of our HBT technology partnership, we successfully developed
fabrication of the first InGaP HBT devices using six-inch wafers during October
1999. We plan to implement this technology in our manufacturing facility during
the third quarter of 2000. We believe these actions will position us to be the
first-to-market with products based on six-inch GaAs InGaP HBT technology.

         We believe there are opportunities to develop integrated circuits in
silicon or silicon germanium which would supplement our GaAs integrated circuits
in modules. Although GaAs provides performance advantages over silicon in
high-performance radio frequency integrated circuits, silicon is a more
cost-effective solution for the lower performance part of a system. Silicon
radio frequency chips are used by our customers in conjunction with our GaAs
chips to perform less complex radio frequency functions. As we seek to increase
our integrated circuit content in product applications, we are expanding our
product offerings to also include radio frequency integrated circuits
manufactured with silicon products. Further, we believe some of these silicon
integrated circuits may have significant market potential as stand-alone
devices. The recently established RF Communication Products Group at ANADIGICS
will be exploring the use of these technologies in the wireless application. We
currently do not intend to manufacture in-house with either of these
technologies as we believe there will be adequate external foundry capacity
available.

Customers

         We receive most of our revenues from a few significant customers. Sales
to Ericsson, General Instrument and Qualcomm Personal Electronics accounted for
33%, 13% and 16%, respectively, of 1997 net sales. Ericsson and General
Instrument accounted for 34% and 17%, respectively, of 1998 net sales, and 47%
and 18%, respectively, of net sales during 1999. No other customer accounted for
greater than 10% of net sales during these periods. Substantially all of our
sales of wireless applications during 1999 were to Ericsson. During February
2000, ANADIGICS received multi-million unit orders for its linear RF switches
from Motorola. Production shipments of these switches also began in February
2000.


Employees

         At December 31, 1999, we had 543 employees, none of whom was a member
of a labor union. We believe our labor relations to be good and have never
experienced a work stoppage.



                                       8
<PAGE>

Competition

         Competition in all of the markets for our current products is intense
and we compete on the basis of performance, price and delivery. Competitors in
the wireless market are suppliers of discrete devices and integrated circuits.
Our competitors include Alpha Industries, Conexant Systems, Hitachi, RF Micro
Devices, and Triquint Semiconductor.

         In the cable and broadcast television markets, our integrated circuits
compete primarily with manufacturers of discrete components and integrated
circuits. Our competitors include Analog Devices, Inc., Maxim Integrated
Products, Inc., Motorola, NEC Corp., Royal Philips Electronics N.V.

         In the fiber optic market, we compete with other GaAs and silicon
integrated circuit manufacturers. Principal competitors in this market are Maxim
Integrated Products, Inc., Conexant Systems (formerly Microcosm Communications),
Royal Philips Electronics, and Vitesse Semiconductor as well as some of our
customers who design and fabricate their own in-house solutions. In particular,
we expect to face increased competition in our fiber optic products used in
low-data-rate SONET fiber optic transmissions. See "Risk Factors--We face
intense competition which could result in reductions in our products' prices and
sales".

         Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial,
technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. Increased
competition could adversely affect our revenue and profitability by causing us
to reduce prices or by reducing demand for our products.


Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights

         It is our practice to seek U.S. and foreign patent and copyright
protection on our products and developments where appropriate and to protect our
valuable technology under U.S. and foreign laws affording protection for trade
secrets and for semiconductor chip designs. We own nineteen U.S. patents and
have three pending U.S. patent applications and one pending foreign patent
application filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. The U.S. patents were
issued between 1988 and 1999 and will expire between 2006 and 2018.

         We rely primarily upon trade secrets, technical know-how and other
unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and
manufacturing activities. To protect our trade secrets, technical know-how and
other proprietary information, our employees are required to enter into
agreements providing for maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of
rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. We also have entered into
non-disclosure agreements to protect our confidential information delivered to
third parties, in conjunction with possible corporate collaborations and for
other purposes.

Environmental Matters

         Our operations are subject to many federal, state and local
environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or
operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment.
These laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of
remediating, and for certain damages resulting from, sites of past releases of
hazardous materials. We believe that we currently conduct, and in the past have
conducted, our activities and operations in substantial compliance with
applicable environmental laws, and that costs arising from existing
environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations. We cannot assure you, however, that the environmental laws will not
become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur significant costs
in the future in order to comply with these laws.




                                       9
<PAGE>


                                  RISK FACTORS

         IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, THE
FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED CAREFULLY IN EVALUATING AN
INVESTMENT IN ANADIGICS, INC. CERTAIN STATEMENTS IN THIS REPORT ARE
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (AS THAT TERM IS DEFINED IN THE SECURITIES ACT OF
1933, AS AMENDED) THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THESE FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS CAN GENERALLY BE IDENTIFIED AS SUCH BECAUSE THE CONTEXT OF THE
STATEMENT WILL INCLUDE WORDS SUCH AS WE "BELIEVE", "ANTICIPATE", "EXPECT" OR
WORDS OF SIMILAR IMPORT. SIMILARLY, STATEMENTS THAT DESCRIBE OUR FUTURE PLANS,
OBJECTIVES, ESTIMATES OR GOALS ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. THE CAUTIONARY
STATEMENTS MADE IN THIS REPORT SHOULD BE READ AS BEING APPLICABLE TO ALL RELATED
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WHEREVER THEY APPEAR IN THIS REPORT. IMPORTANT
FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS AND DEVELOPMENTS TO BE MATERIALLY
DIFFERENT FROM THOSE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED BY SUCH STATEMENTS INCLUDE THOSE
FACTORS DISCUSSED BELOW, AS WELL AS THOSE DISCUSSED ELSEWHERE HEREIN.

                                 Business Risks

We depend on a small number of customers; a loss of or a decrease in purchases
by one of these customers would materially and adversely affect our revenues.

         We receive most of our revenues from a few significant customers. Sales
to Ericsson, General Instrument and Qualcomm Personal Electronics accounted for
33%, 13% and 16%, respectively, of 1997 net sales. Ericsson and General
Instrument accounted for 34% and 17%, respectively, of 1998 net sales, and 47%
and 18%, respectively, of net sales during 1999. No other customer accounted for
greater than 10% of net sales during these periods. Substantially all of our
sales of wireless applications during 1999 were to Ericsson. Our operating
results have been materially and adversely affected in the past by the failure
of anticipated orders to be realized and by deferrals or cancellations of orders
as a result of changes in customer requirements. If we were to lose Ericsson,
General Instrument or another major customer, or if sales to Ericsson, General
Instrument or another major customer were to decrease materially, our results of
operations would be materially and adversely affected. See "Business--Target
Markets and Products".

Our business could be adversely affected by our failure to process wafers using
our GaAs InGaP HBT technology.

         We have developed GaAs InGaP HBT process capability to manufacture
power amplifiers and certain other integrated circuits. Some of our competitors
already offer products using HBT technology. We hope to begin production of GaAs
InGaP HBT products in our own manufacturing facility during the third quarter of
2000. We cannot assure you that our efforts will result in commercially
successful GaAs HBT products in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all.
Our in-house product design efforts may be delayed or may fail to deliver viable
GaAs InGaP HBT products. Our results of operations could be materially and
adversely affected by our failure to process wafers using this technology. Even
if we are successful, our customers may purchase their GaAs InGaP HBT
requirements from our competitors.


Decreases in our customers' sales volumes could result in decreases in our sales
volumes.

         A substantial portion of our sales are derived from sales to original
equipment manufacturers. Where our products are designed into an original
equipment manufacturer's product, our sales volumes depend upon the commercial
success of the original equipment manufacturer's product. Our operating results
have been materially and adversely affected in the past by the failure of
anticipated orders to be realized and by deferrals or cancellations of orders as
a result of changes in demands for our customers' products.

We will need to keep pace with rapid product and process development and
technological changes to be competitive.

         Rapid changes in both product and process technologies characterize the
markets for our products. Because these technologies are continually improving,
we believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to
continue to improve our product and process technologies and develop new
products and process technologies. If a competing technology emerges that is
superior to our existing technology and we are unable to develop and/or
implement the new technology successfully or to develop and implement a
competitive and economic alternative technology, our results of operations would
be materially and adversely affected. We will need to make substantial
investments to develop these enhancements and technologies, and we cannot assure
you that funds for these investments will be available or that these
enhancements and technologies will be successful. See "Business--Competition"
and "Research and Development".




                                       10
<PAGE>



Our products have experienced rapidly declining unit prices.

         In each of the markets where we compete, prices of established products
tend to decline significantly over time. Accordingly, in order to remain
competitive, we believe that we must continue to develop product enhancements
and new technologies that will either slow the price declines of our products or
reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products. If we fail to do so,
our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.

The variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins.

         Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending
on the complexity of a particular GaAs integrated circuit's design and our
experience in manufacturing that type of GaAs integrated circuit. Although our
process technology uses standard silicon semiconductor manufacturing equipment,
aggregate production quantities of GaAs integrated circuits manufactured by us
and the GaAs integrated circuit industry in general have been relatively low
compared with silicon integrated circuit production volumes. We have in the past
experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields, which have adversely
affected our gross margins.

         Regardless of the process technology used, the fabrication of
integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the
fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected
or numerous integrated circuits on each wafer to be nonfunctional, thereby
reducing yields. These difficulties can include:

         o   defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns
             onto our wafers;

         o   impurities in the materials used;

         o   contamination of the manufacturing environment; and

         o   equipment failure.

         Because a large portion of our costs of manufacturing are relatively
fixed and average selling prices for our products tend to decline over time, it
is critical for us to improve the number of shippable integrated circuits per
wafer and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain and
improve our results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially
higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating
results and have done so in the past. We cannot assure you that we will be able
to continue to improve yields in the future or that we will not suffer periodic
yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or
introduction of new process technologies. In either case, our results of
operations could be materially and adversely affected. See
"Business--Manufacturing, Assembly and Testing".

We may face constraints on our manufacturing capacity which would limit our
ability to increase sales volumes.

         We believe that our six-inch wafer fabrication facility should be able
to satisfy our production needs for 2000. However, if production volumes were to
increase significantly from expected levels, we might be required to hire, train
and manage additional production personnel in order to successfully increase
production capacity at this facility. We cannot assure you that we would be able
to implement these changes successfully. A delay for any reason in capacity
increase would limit our ability to increase sales volumes. In addition, if we
fail to increase production and do not have sufficient capacity to satisfy the
demand for our products, our relationships with customers could be harmed.

We depend on foreign semiconductor assembly contractors and a loss of an
assembly contractor could result in delays or reductions in product shipment.

         We do not assemble our integrated circuits or our multi-chip modules.
Instead, we provide the GaAs integrated circuit dice and, in some cases,
packaging and other components to assembly vendors located primarily in Asia. We
maintain one qualified service supplier for each assembly process. If we are
unable to obtain sufficient high quality and timely assembly service, or if we
lose any of our current assembly vendors, we would experience delays or
reductions in product shipment, and/or reduced product yields that could
materially and adversely affect our results of operations.

We may face constraints on our test capacity which could result in manufacturing
delays.

         We use automated test equipment that, at times, is short in supply. As
a result, we need to order the test equipment from the manufacturer far in
advance of our anticipated need. We cannot assure you that we can obtain the
appropriate equipment in a timely or cost effective manner. Our inability to
obtain appropriate test equipment in a timely manner could result in
manufacturing delays which would have a material and adverse effect on our
results of operations.




                                       11
<PAGE>

The short life cycles of some of our products may leave us with obsolete or
excess inventories.

         The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life
cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. We estimate
that current life cycles for cellular and PCS telephone handsets, and in turn
our cellular and PCS products, are approximately 12 to 24 months. Products with
short life cycles require us to manage closely production and inventory levels.
We cannot assure you that obsolete or excess inventories, which may result from
unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or the
estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed,
will not affect us. In 1998, we recorded a special charge for obsolete
inventory. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations--1998 Compared to 1997 Gross Margin".

Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited which could
result in delays or reductions in product shipments.

         We do not manufacture any of the starting wafers or packaging
components used in the production of our GaAs integrated circuits. Starting
wafers and packaging components are available from a limited number of sources.
If we are unable to obtain these wafers or components in the required quantities
and quality we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments, which
would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Although we
have not experienced any significant difficulty to date in obtaining wafers or
components, we cannot assure you that shortages will not arise in the future.

         We depend on a limited number of vendors to supply equipment used in
our manufacturing processes. When demand for semiconductor manufacturing
equipment is high, lead times for delivery of such equipment can be substantial.
We cannot assure you that we would not lose potential sales if required
manufacturing equipment is unavailable and, as a result, we are unable to
maintain or increase our production levels. See "We may face constraints on our
manufacturing capacity which would limit our ability to increase sales volumes".

Our international sales and operations involve foreign exchange risks.

         Sales to customers located outside North America (based on shipping
addresses and not on the locations of ultimate end users) accounted for
approximately 57%, 58% and 61% of total net sales for 1997, 1998, and 1999,
respectively. We expect that revenues derived from international sales will
continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales. In addition,
independent third parties located in Asia supply a substantial portion of the
starting wafers and packaging components that we use in the production of GaAs
integrated circuits, and assemble nearly all of our products.

         Due to our reliance on international sales and on foreign suppliers and
assemblers, we are subject to risks of conducting business outside of the United
States, including primarily those arising from currency fluctuations, which
could affect the price of our products and/or the cost of producing them.

Our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it harder for us to be
acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors and
management.

         Several provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws
may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which
the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current
market price for our common stock. These provisions include:

          o    preferred stock--our board of directors can issue preferred
               stock senior to our common stock at any time. This may make it
               more difficult and more expensive to acquire us;

          o    staggered board--only a minority of the total number of board
               members can be elected each year. This may make it more difficult
               for a potential purchaser to elect enough directors to assure
               control of ANADIGICS; and

          o    shareholder rights agreement--our shareholder rights agreement
               may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us,
               unless the shareholder rights are first redeemed by our board.

         In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General
Corporation Law which restricts business combinations with some stockholders
once the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our common stock.




                                       12
<PAGE>


                                 Industry Risks

We face intense competition which could result in a decrease of our products'
prices and sales.

         The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is
characterized by rapid technological change. We compete with manufacturers of
discrete GaAs and silicon semiconductors and with manufacturers of GaAs and
silicon integrated circuits. We expect increased competition from:

         o     other GaAs integrated circuit manufacturers who may replace us
               as a single source supplier to an original equipment
               manufacturer or otherwise dilute our sales to an original
               equipment manufacturer;

         o     silicon analog integrated circuit manufacturers; and

         o     companies which may penetrate the radio frequency/microwave
               integrated circuit communications market with other
               technologies, such as those based on silicon germanium.

         In addition, some of our customers compete with us and we have lost
business in the past to this type of competition. We expect that sales of low
data rate fiber optic products used in SONET fiber optic transmissions could
decline significantly over the next few quarters, as current customers begin to
obtain these products from in-house supply sources.

         Increased competition could result in:

          o    decreased prices of GaAs integrated circuits;

          o    reduced demand for our products; and

          o    a reduction in our ability to recover development-engineering
               costs.

         Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our
results of operations.

         Most of our current and potential competitors, which include Alpha
Industries, Inc., Applied Micro Circuits (AMCC), Conexant Systems, Inc., Hitachi
Ltd., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc, Motorola, NEC Corp, RF Micro Devices,
Inc., Royal Philips Electronics, N.V., Temic Semiconductors, TriQuint
Semiconductor, Inc. and Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation, have significantly
greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with our
existing or new competitors. See "Business--Competition".

Our operating results can vary significantly.

         The semiconductor industry has been characterized by cyclicality. The
industry has experienced significant economic downturns at times, involving
diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices and
production over-capacity. Although the semiconductor industry in general, and
the portion of the industry serving the communications industry in particular,
are currently experiencing a period of increased demand, we cannot assure you
that these conditions will continue. We may experience substantial period to
period fluctuations in future operating results. You should not rely on our
operating results for any previous year(s) as an indicator of our results may be
for any future year(s).

We may not be successful in avoiding claims that we infringe on the intellectual
property rights of others or in protecting our own intellectual property rights.

         Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and
copyrights, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on
the proprietary rights of third parties.

         As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have been notified, and
may be notified in the future, that we are infringing on certain patent and /or
other intellectual property rights of others. If it is determined that we have
infringed on others' intellectual property rights, we cannot assure you that we
would be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially reasonable terms.





                                       13
<PAGE>



         In addition to patent and copyright protection, we also rely on trade
secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information
relating to our product development and manufacturing activities which we seek
to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators and
employees. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that
we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and
proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or independently discovered
by others. See "Business--Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights" and "Legal
Matters".
