ITEM 1. BUSINESS -- OVERVIEW

     We design, develop, manufacture and distribute high-performance compound
semiconductor substrates, as well as opto-electronic semiconductor devices, such
as high-brightness light emitting diodes, or HBLEDs, and vertical cavity surface
emitting lasers, or VCSELs. Our substrate products are used primarily in fiber
optic communications, wireless communications and lighting display applications.
We believe our proprietary vertical gradient freeze, or VGF, technique for
manufacturing compound semiconductor substrates provides significant benefits
over traditional methods and has enabled us to become a leading manufacturer of
compound semiconductor substrates. We pioneered the commercial use of VGF
technology to manufacture gallium arsenide, or GaAs, substrates and have used
VGF technology to manufacture substrates from other materials, such as indium
phosphide, or InP, and germanium, or Ge. Customers for our substrates include
Alpha Industries, Agilent Technologies, EMCORE, Nortel Networks, RF Micro
Devices, SDL and Sumitomo Chemical. Our acquisition of Lyte Optronics provided
us with expertise in epitaxial processes for manufacturing opto-electronic
semiconductor devices. We have used these capabilities to make blue, green and
cyan HBLEDs and VCSELs. Our opto-electronic semiconductor devices are used in a
wide range of applications, such as solid-state lighting and fiber optic
communications. We have recently undertaken an initiative to significantly
expand our substrate and device manufacturing capacity and to reduce the overall
cost structure of our manufacturing operations.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Historically, most semiconductor devices were created on a single crystal
base material, or substrate, of silicon. Today, however, a growing number of
electronic and opto-electronic devices are being developed with requirements
that exceed the capabilities of silicon. Many of these devices address the
continually increasing demand to send, receive and display information on
high-speed wireless and wireline networks. This demand has created a growing
need for power-efficient high-performance systems that can operate at high
frequencies and can be produced cost-effectively in high volumes. These systems
enable the growth and development of a wide range of end-user applications. For
example, International Data Corporation, or IDC, expects the number of mobile
wireless devices for Internet access and other data transmission to grow from
10.0 million units in 1999 to more than 562.0 million units by 2004.

     Other examples of applications for these systems include:

     - fiber optic networks and optical systems within these networks;

     - new voice and high-speed wireless data systems;

     - infrared emitters and optical detectors in computer systems;

     - solid-state lighting, including exterior and interior automobile
       lighting; and

     - satellite communications systems.

     As a result of the limitations of silicon-based technologies, semiconductor
device manufacturers are increasingly using compound semiconductor substrates to
improve the performance of semiconductor devices and to enable these new
applications. This shift is occurring even though these compound semiconductor
substrates are more expensive. Compound semiconductor substrates are composed of
multiple elements that

                                        1
<PAGE>   3

include a metal, such as gallium, aluminum or indium, and a non-metal, such as
arsenic, phosphorus or nitrogen. The resulting compounds include gallium
arsenide, indium phosphide and gallium nitride. Advantages of devices
manufactured on compound substrates over devices manufactured using silicon
substrates include:

     - operation at higher speeds;

     - lower power consumption;

     - less noise and distortion; and

     - opto-electronic properties that enable devices to emit and detect light.

     The first step in producing a compound semiconductor substrate is to grow a
crystal of the materials. Historically, two processes have been used to grow
crystals: the Liquid Encapsulated Czochralski, or LEC, technique and the
Horizontal-Bridgeman, or HB, technique. We believe two trends are reducing the
appeal of these techniques: more semiconductor devices are being formed using an
epitaxial process and semiconductor device manufacturers are switching their
production lines to six-inch diameter substrates. The LEC and HB techniques each
have difficulties producing six-inch, high-quality, low-cost compound
semiconductor substrates for epitaxial processing. We introduced our VGF
technique in 1986 to respond to the limitations inherent in the LEC and HB
techniques.

     Compound semiconductor substrates enable the development of a wide range of
electronic products including power amplifiers and radio frequency integrated
circuits used in wireless handsets. Compound substrates can also be used to
create opto-electronic products including HBLEDs and VCSELs used in solid state
lighting and fiber optic communications.

     HBLEDs are solid-state compound semiconductor devices that emit light. The
global demand for HBLEDs is experiencing rapid growth because HBLEDs have a long
useful life, consume approximately 10% of the power consumed by incandescent or
halogen lighting and improve display visibility. Applications where HBLEDs are
increasingly used include wireless handset displays, automotive displays, full
color video displays, traffic lights and various consumer applications.
According to Strategies Unlimited, an independent industry analyst, the market
for HBLEDs is expected to grow from $1.2 billion in 2000 to approximately $3.3
billion by 2005.

     VCSELs are semiconductor lasers that emit light in a cylindrical beam and
offer significant advantages over traditional laser diodes, including greater
control over beam size and wavelength, reduced manufacturing complexity and
packaging costs, lower power consumption and higher frequency performance.
Electronics and computing systems manufacturers are using VCSELs in a broad
range of end-market applications, including fiber optic switching and routing,
such as Gigabit Ethernet for communications networks and Fibre Channel for
storage area networks. According to ElectroniCast, an independent industry
analyst, the market for VCSELs is expected to grow from $262.0 million in 1999
to approximately $3.4 billion by 2004.

THE AXT ADVANTAGE

     We are a leading developer and supplier of high-performance compound
semiconductor substrates and opto-electronic semiconductor devices, including
HBLEDs and VCSELs. There are four key causes of our success:

     Our VGF technology is a competitive advantage. We pioneered the commercial
use of VGF technology to manufacture GaAs substrates and we believe that through
the use of VGF we have become the leading worldwide supplier of GaAs substrates.
Our VGF process produces substrates with high mechanical strength and physical
and chemical uniformity, as well as a low defect rate. The following changes in
our customers' technologies are increasing demand for substrates with these
features:

     - Greater use of epitaxy rather than ion implantation. Many of the newest
       generation of high-performance semiconductor devices for fiber optic and
       wireless communications applications, including heterojunction bipolar
       transistors, or HBTs, and pseudomorphic high electron mobility
       transistors, or

                                        2
<PAGE>   4

       PHEMTs, are popular because they offer lower power consumption and better
       device linearity than their predecessors. These devices are created using
       epitaxial processed substrates. Our VGF substrates are more suitable for
       these applications than are our competitors' products.

     - Switch to six-inch diameter wafers. Many of our semiconductor device
       manufacturing customers are switching their GaAs production lines to
       six-inch diameter substrates in order to reduce unit costs and increase
       capacity. Our VGF technique is better suited to developing six-inch
       substrates than are competing methods.

     - Introduction of InP substrates. Even GaAs cannot meet the requirements
       for increasing system performance and network bandwidth of some
       applications, including SONET OC-768 applications that operate at speeds
       up to 40 gigabits per second. Manufacturers of these devices are turning
       to InP substrates that can support these features. We have successfully
       used our VGF technique to develop InP and we were among the first to
       offer four-inch InP substrates.

     In addition, VGF technology gives us further benefits.

     - Customer technology independence. Our semiconductor device manufacturing
       customers often compete among themselves. For example, several of our
       customers compete for technological leadership in the wireless handset
       market. These customers or end-users all require devices made on GaAs
       substrates. We are, therefore, largely immune from the effects of such
       competition and benefit from an overall need for faster, more power
       efficient electronic and opto-electronic devices.

     - Faster and less expensive capacity expansion. We build our own crystal
       growing equipment rather than ordering it from third-party vendors. This
       capability, coupled with the fact that our equipment is less expensive
       and simpler to manufacture than LEC equipment, enables us to increase our
       capacity faster and at lower cost than our competitors. This ability is
       particularly beneficial in the current rapid growth environment for
       six-inch GaAs and all InP substrates. Retaining the equipment
       manufacturing process within AXT also helps protect our proprietary
       technology.

     Some customers specify VGF substrates. Our wafers are qualified with most
of the key suppliers of GaAs and InP semiconductor devices. The qualification
process, which is lengthy and must be repeated for each customer, can be a
barrier to entry for a new material or supplier. Furthermore, certain of our
customers now specify that they will only accept VGF-grown substrates for their
manufacturing processes. As the businesses of these customers grow, we are
well-positioned to grow with them as a key supplier.

     Our low-cost manufacturing is an advantage. We use our technology and
economics of scale to be a low-cost manufacturer. Our expansion in China
provides us with a combination of lower costs for facilities, labor and
materials than we encounter in the United States and positions us to gain access
to low-cost raw materials supply sources. Furthermore, as we increase our
production capacity, we are able to spread fixed costs over a larger revenue
base, thereby leveraging our cost structure and achieving economies of scale.

     We entered the opto-electronic semiconductor device market quickly through
our acquisition of Lyte Optronics. Our acquisition of Lyte Optronics provided us
with expertise in epitaxial processes for manufacturing high-volumes of
opto-electronic semiconductor devices. High-quality epitaxy is a key requirement
for most of today's advanced opto-electronic semiconductor devices, such as
HBLEDs and VCSELs. Since acquiring Lyte Optronics, we have developed
opto-electronic products that are among the more difficult to create using
epitaxy, including green HBLEDs and VCSELs. We have filed five patent
applications for our approach to fabricating HBLEDs. We believe that we can be
an important additional domestic source of these devices.

                                        3
<PAGE>   5

THE AXT STRATEGY

     Our goals are to strengthen our position as the leading developer and
supplier of high-performance compound semiconductor substrates and to develop a
leading position in the market for opto-electronic semiconductor devices. Key
elements of our strategy include:

     Expand GaAs substrate manufacturing capacity and decrease manufacturing
cost structure. We are increasing our production capacity in order to increase
our share of the market for GaAs substrates. We believe that we can extend our
leadership position by increasing our manufacturing capacity more rapidly than
competitors and in a manner that enables us to further lower unit production
costs. Much of this capacity increase will be for production of our six-inch
diameter GaAs substrates. We further believe that expanding our manufacturing
operations in China will allow us to increase capacity more quickly and at lower
cost. Furthermore, this expansion will allow us to form strategic alliances with
suppliers of key raw materials.

     Strengthen our leadership position in the InP market. We believe that there
will be rapid growth in demand for the next generation of high speed fiber optic
devices, such as devices used in SONET OC-768 applications. These products are
manufactured on InP substrates and we are positioning ourselves to be the
leading supplier of InP substrates by significantly expanding our production
capacity. Our sales of InP substrates during the year ended December 31, 2000
grew 373.8% compared to our sales of InP substrates during 1999.

     Advance VGF technology leadership. We believe that our ability to produce
high-quality substrates using VGF technology continues to provide us with a
competitive advantage in the high growth compound semiconductor substrate
markets. We intend to continue our investment in research and development in
order to expand our leadership position in the commercial use of VGF technology.
For example, we intend to leverage our existing knowledge in growing six-inch
GaAs substrates to grow longer crystals, which will further reduce our costs. We
are also launching an effort to develop six-inch diameter InP substrates in
response to customer requests.

     Enhance our opto-electronic semiconductor devices. We intend to further
penetrate the high growth HBLED and VCSEL markets through continued investment
in research and development and expansion of production capacity. We are
expanding our manufacturing capacity by adding metal-organic chemical vapor
deposition, or MOCVD, reactors and are modifying our epitaxial process to
improve device performance and yield. We have invested in the research and
infrastructure required to grow our own sapphire substrates, which are used in
producing blue, green and cyan LEDs. During the next year we expect to increase
our VCSEL sales and develop our chip fabrication capabilities, which will enable
us to develop one- and two-dimensional VCSEL arrays.

     Leverage existing customer relationships. We currently sell our GaAs
substrates to more than 300 customers and believe that we are a qualified
provider to most of the significant users worldwide of GaAs substrates. We
intend to capitalize on our relationships with our customers in order to both
expand sales of GaAs substrates and sell other compound substrates, such as InP.
We also intend to establish alliances and joint development arrangements with
customers in emerging high growth markets to develop new products, increase
manufacturing efficiencies and more effectively serve our customers' needs.

                                        4
<PAGE>   6

TECHNOLOGY

     Our core technologies include our proprietary VGF technique used to produce
high quality crystals that are processed into compound substrates, and our
epitaxy technologies that enable us to manufacture blue, green and cyan HBLEDs
and VCSELs.

           [VGF DIAGRAM]

     Our VGF technique is designed to control the crystal-growth process with
minimal temperature variation and is the technique we use to produce our GaAs,
InP and Ge substrates. Unlike traditional techniques, our VGF technique places
the hot compound melt above the cool crystal, thereby reducing the turbulence of
the melt which results when the melt and crystal are inverted. The temperature
gradient between the melt and the crystal in the VGF technique is significantly
lower than in traditional techniques. These aspects of the VGF technique enable
us to grow crystals that have a relatively low defect density and high
uniformity. The crystal and the resulting substrate, are mechanically strong,
resulting in lower breakage rates during a customer's manufacturing process.
Since the temperature gradient is controlled electronically rather than by
physical movement, the sensitive crystal is not disturbed. In addition, the melt
and growing crystal are contained in a closed chamber, which isolates the
crystal from the outside environment to reduce potential contamination. This
substrate isolation allows for more precise control of the gallium-to-arsenic
ratio, resulting in better consistency and uniformity of the crystals.

     Our VGF technique offers several benefits when compared to traditional
crystal growing technologies. The Liquid Encapsulated Czochralski, or LEC,
technique is the traditional method for producing semi-insulating GaAs
substrates for electronic applications. During the LEC process, the crystal is
grown by dipping a seed crystal through molten boric oxide into a melt and
slowly pulling the seed up into the cool zone above the boric oxide where the
crystal hardens. Unlike the VGF technique, the LEC technique is designed so that
the hotter GaAs melt is located beneath the cooler crystal, resulting in greater
turbulence in the melt, and at a temperature gradient that is significantly
higher than the VGF technique. The turbulence and high temperature cause
LEC-grown crystals to have a higher dislocation density than VGF-grown crystals,
resulting in a higher rate of breakage during the device manufacturing process.
As an open process, the LEC technique also results in greater propensity for
contamination and difficulty controlling the ratio of gallium to

                                        5
<PAGE>   7

arsenic. It requires large, complex electro-mechanical systems that are
expensive and require highly skilled personnel to operate.

     Our VGF technique also offers advantages over the Horizontal-Bridgeman, or
HB, technique, for producing semi-conducting GaAs substrates for opto-electronic
applications. The HB technique holds the GaAs melt in a semi-cylindrical
container, causing crystals grown using the HB method to have a semi-circular,
or D-shaped, cross-section. Accordingly, more crystal material is discarded when
the D-shaped substrate is subsequently trimmed to a round shape. In addition,
crystals grown using the HB technique have a higher defect density than
VGF-grown crystals. The HB technique cannot be used cost-effectively to produce
substrates greater than three inches in diameter. The HB technique houses the
GaAs melt in a quartz container during the growth process, which can contaminate
the GaAs melt with silicon impurities, making it unsuitable for producing
semi-insulating GaAs substrates.

     The following table provides a comparison of these three techniques:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            VGF
                                      ---------------          HB                LEC
                                      ELECTRONIC AND     ---------------    --------------
       SUBSTRATE APPLICATIONS         OPTO-ELECTRONIC    OPTO-ELECTRONIC      ELECTRONIC
       ----------------------         ---------------    ---------------    --------------
<S>                                   <C>                <C>                <C>
Largest wafer size available........              6"              3"                    6"
Stress/defect levels................        Very Low             Low                  High
Crystal purity......................            Good            Poor                  Good
Applicability to multiple
  materials.........................   GaAs, InP, Ge            GaAs        GaAs, InP, GaP
Equipment and labor cost............        Very Low             Low                  High
Amount of waste material............        Very Low            High                   Low
Equipment flexibility...............       Versatile         Limited               Limited
Equipment downtime..................         Minimal        Moderate                  High
Number of competitors...............             Few            Many                  Many
</TABLE>

     VCSEL devices include single lasers as well as one- and two-dimensional
arrays of lasers. Array products are more highly valued than single lasers
because they provide greater bandwidth, but are harder to form because they
require epitaxial structures that possess very high uniformity in chemical
composition and low variation in thickness. These features are hard to achieve
because the epitaxial process used to make a VCSEL device places approximately
200 layers of epitaxial structure on a substrate, as compared to the less than
10 layers of material deposited on a substrate to make an HBLED. Our epitaxial
process, which includes proprietary in situ monitoring techniques, allows us to
manufacture highly reliable VCSEL wafers that demonstrate comparatively low
threshold currents and high output power and are sufficiently uniform to produce
one- and two-dimensional VCSEL devices. We employ both ion implantation and
oxidation processes to produce VCSEL devices from our wafers.

     We create our opto-electronic semiconductor devices using MOCVD, which is
an epitaxial technique to synthesize compound semiconductor thin films onto
substrates. MOCVD reactors are available from multiple sources and wafers
fabricated using MOCVD generally possess a better combination of uniformity and
optical and electronic properties and are easier to produce cost-effectively in
high volumes than wafers manufactured by other methods, such as molecular beam
epitaxy, vapor phase epitaxy or liquid phase epitaxy. As a result, MOCVD
reactors have become the choice of the opto-electronic industry for fabricating
devices such as LEDs, VCSELs and laser diodes. We modify our MOCVD reactors to
improve their performance and use a proprietary growth recipe that controls
temperature, material impurity, defect density, material thickness and layer
composition while allowing for multiple wafer batch replication.

                                        6
<PAGE>   8

PRODUCTS

     We design, develop, manufacture and distribute high-performance
semiconductor substrates, as well as opto-electronic devices, such as HBLEDs and
VCSELs. The table below sets forth our products and selected applications:

<TABLE>
<S>                        <C>                                    <C>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PRODUCT                    APPLICATIONS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SUBSTRATES               ELECTRONIC                             OPTO-ELECTRONIC
  GaAs                     - Cellular phones                      - LEDs
                           - Direct broadcast television          - Lasers
                           - High-performance transistors         - Optical couplers
                           - Satellite communications             - Displays
  InP                      - Fiber optic communications           - Fiber optic communications
                           - Satellite communications             - Lasers
                           - High-performance transistors
                           - Automotive collision avoidance
                             radars
  Ge                       - Satellite solar cells
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  VISIBLE EMITTERS
  Blue, green and cyan     - Full color displays
  HBLEDs                   - Lighting for the interior and exterior of automobiles
                           - Traffic signals
                           - Back lighting for cellular phones and instrument panels
                           - White light for general illumination
  VCSELs                   - Fiber optic and wireless communications
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Substrates. We currently sell compound substrates manufactured from GaAs
and InP, as well as single-element substrates manufactured from Ge. We supply
GaAs substrates in two-, three-, four-, five- and six-inch diameters. We
manufacture InP substrates in two-, three- and four-inch diameters and Ge
substrates in four-inch diameters. We are developing and intend to initiate
production of sapphire substrates.

     Visible Emitters. We sell blue, green and cyan HBLED products in wafer and
chip form. We began selling blue HBLED products in the first quarter of 2000 and
have recently begun shipping green and cyan HBLEDs. We introduced our first
VSCEL product in August 2000.

CUSTOMERS

     We sell our compound semiconductor substrates worldwide to leading
semiconductor device manufacturers. Our top substrate customers include:

Agilent Technologies
Alpha Industries
Alpha Photonics
EMCORE
Epistar
Eptaxial Products
Epitronics
Kopin
Motorola
Nortel Networks
Osram
Picogiga
Precision Opto Wafer
Quantum Epitaxial Designs
RF Micro Devices
SDL
Spectrolab
Sumitomo Chemical
TRW Space & Defense
Visual Photonics Epitaxy

     We sell our HBLED products primarily to customers that incorporate them
into lighting products. Our HBLED customers include Harvatek and King Brite.

MANUFACTURING

     We believe that our success is partially due to our manufacturing
efficiency and high product yields and we continually emphasize quality and
process control throughout our manufacturing operations. We perform

                                        7
<PAGE>   9

our substrate manufacturing operations at our facilities in Fremont, California
and Beijing, China. As part of our plan to reduce manufacturing costs, we are
shifting many of our labor-intensive processes to our facilities in China, where
costs, including labor costs, are generally lower. We intend to transfer the
majority of our substrate manufacturing operations to China by the end of 2001.
We believe that our capital investment and subsequent operating costs are lower
for our manufacturing facilities in China relative to the U.S. Many of our
manufacturing operations are fully automated and computer monitored or
controlled, enhancing reliability and yield. We use proprietary equipment in our
substrate manufacturing operations to protect our intellectual property and
control the timing and pace of capacity additions. By assembling our own
equipment, we can quickly increase capacity without incurring delays caused by
ordering additional equipment or converting older equipment to new technologies.
Our epitaxial wafer production is located in El Monte, California. Our Fremont
and Beijing substrate facilities are ISO 9002 certified, and we are working
toward ISO certification for our other manufacturing facilities.

     We depend on a single or limited number of suppliers for certain critical
materials used in the production of our substrates. We generally purchase these
materials through standard purchase orders and not pursuant to long-term supply
contracts. Although we seek to maintain sufficient inventory levels of certain
materials to guard against interruptions in supply and to meet our near term
needs, and have to date been able to obtain sufficient supplies of materials in
a timely manner, there may be shortages of certain key materials, such as
gallium. Accordingly, to help ensure continued supply of materials, we have
formed strategic alliances with suppliers of key raw materials required to
manufacture our products. We believe that these alliances will be advantageous
in procuring materials to support our continued growth.

     We use MOCVD equipment to manufacture our opto-electronic devices. We are
installing several new MOCVD reactors and expect that these additional machines
will meet our needs for the foreseeable future. The substrate materials and raw
wafers used in our visible emitter products are purchased from our substrate
division and other sources.

SALES AND MARKETING

     Each of our divisions is responsible for its own sales and marketing
activities, and each maintains its own sales and marketing personnel. In
addition, each of our divisions advertises in trade publications, distributes
promotional materials, publishes technical articles, conducts marketing programs
and participates in industry trade shows and conferences in order to raise
market awareness of our products.

     Substrates. We sell our substrate products through our direct sales force
in the U.S. and through independent sales representatives in France, Japan,
South Korea, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Our direct sales force consists of
sales engineers who are knowledgeable in the manufacture and use of compound and
single-element substrates. Our sales engineers work with customers during all
stages of the substrate manufacturing process, from developing the precise
composition of the substrate through manufacturing and processing the substrate
to the customer's exact specifications. We believe that maintaining a close
relationship with customers and providing them with ongoing technical support
improves customer satisfaction and will provide us with a competitive advantage
in selling other substrates to our customers. The substrate division has
launched a program with selected customers in which we will guarantee that high
volumes of six-inch GaAs and other substrates will be delivered on specific
dates and the customer will make a prepayment for part of the value of its
order. We intend to allow several major customers to participate in this
program.

     Visible Emitters. We sell our HBLED products primarily through independent
sales representatives to lamp package manufacturers in Taiwan and China. We
intend to expand sales of these products in the U.S. and Europe primarily using
our direct sales force. We sell our VCSEL devices through our direct sales force
and through independent sales representatives.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     To maintain and improve our competitive position, we focus our research and
development efforts on designing new proprietary processes and products,
improving the performance of existing products and reducing manufacturing costs.
We have assembled a multi-disciplinary team of highly skilled scientists,

                                        8
<PAGE>   10

engineers and technicians to meet our research and development objectives. As a
result of our ongoing research and development activities, we believe that we
offer superior quality products. For example, some customers now qualify
substrates manufactured using our VGF technique as the only acceptable material
in their design specifications.

     Our current substrate research and development activities focus on
continued development and enhancement of six-inch GaAs crystals, including
improved yield, greater substrate strength and increased crystal length. We
continue to develop other compound substrates, such as InP and a low boron
version of our standard GaAs substrates and are initiating research into
development of six-inch InP products. We are developing and intend to initiate
production of sapphire substrates.

     We are focusing on all three major stages of LED development: epitaxy,
wafer fabrication and die fabrication. Our goal is to improve brightness and
yield, create specific colors and enhance uniformity of product, both within and
across production runs. Specific colors are created by controlling the indium
content of the epitaxial layers, which we achieve, in part, from modifications
that we make to our MOCVD reactors. The wafer and die fabrication experience we
gained in our Lyte Optronics laser diode operation has helped us develop similar
techniques for LEDs.

     We began research in 1999 to develop VCSEL devices with uniform epitaxy
structures on three-inch wafers and announced VCSEL wafer products in August
2000. We continue to improve their performance characteristics and intend to
develop one- and two-dimensional array VCSEL chips.

     We have historically funded a significant portion of our research and
development efforts through contracts with the U.S. government and customer
funded research projects, although we do not have any projects underway
currently. Under our contracts, we retain rights to the VGF and wafer
fabrication technology that we have developed. The U.S. government retains the
rights to utilize the technologies we develop for government purposes only.
During the period from 1997 to 1999 these contracts amounted to $5.7 million.
Currently, our research and development is internally funded.

COMPETITION

     The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change
and price erosion, as well as intense foreign and domestic competition. We
believe we currently have a leading position in the existing markets for
compound semiconductor substrates primarily as a result of our expertise in VGF
technology. However, we believe we face actual and potential competition from a
number of established domestic and international companies.

     We believe that the primary competitive factors in the markets in which our
products compete are:

     - quality;

     - price;

     - performance;

     - meeting customer specifications;

     - customer support and satisfaction; and

     - customer investment in competing technologies.

     Our ability to compete in target markets also depends on factors such as:

     - the timing and success of the development and introduction of new
       products by us and our competitors;

     - the availability of adequate sources of raw materials; and

     - protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws
       and general economic conditions.

                                        9
<PAGE>   11

     Our primary competition in the market for compound semiconductor substrates
includes Freiberger, Hitachi Cable, Japan Energy, Litton Airtron and Sumitomo
Electric. In addition, we also face competition from compound semiconductor
device manufacturers that produce substrates for their own internal use, and
from companies such as IBM that are actively developing alternative compound
semiconductor materials.

     Our primary competition in the market for LED products include Cree,
LumiLED, Nichia Chemicals, Toyoda Gosei and United Epitaxy. In general, LED
manufacturers in Taiwan and China have a competitive pricing advantage due to
low overhead and small research and development investments. Cree, Nichia
Chemicals, Sony and Toyoda Gosei have significant patent portfolios that other
competitors, including us, must either design around or license.

     We compete with Agilent, EMCORE and Honeywell in the market for VCSEL
devices.

PROTECTION OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     Our success and the competitive position of our VGF technique depend on our
ability to maintain trade secrets and other intellectual property protections.
We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademark and trade secret
laws, non-disclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection
methods to protect our proprietary technology. We believe that, due to the rapid
pace of technological innovation in the markets for our products, our ability to
establish and maintain a position of technology leadership depends as much on
the skills of our development personnel as upon the legal protections afforded
our existing technologies. To protect our trade secrets, we take certain
measures to ensure their secrecy, such as executing non-disclosure agreements
with our employees, customers and suppliers. However, reliance on trade secrets
is only an effective business practice insofar as trade secrets remain
undisclosed and a proprietary product or process is not reverse engineered or
independently developed.

     To date, we have been issued four U.S. patents which relate to our VGF
products and processes. We have five U.S. patent applications pending which
relate to our LED or laser diode technology, and have patent applications
pending in Europe, Canada, China, Japan and Korea which are based on one of our
U.S. patents that relates to our VGF processes. We have no issued foreign
patents.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

     We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning
the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge
and disposal of certain materials used in our research and development and
production operations, as well as laws and regulations concerning environmental
remediation and employee health and safety. The growing of crystals and the
production of substrates involve the use of certain hazardous raw materials,
including arsenic. We cannot guarantee that our control systems will be
successful in preventing a release of these materials or other adverse
environmental conditions. Any release or other failure to comply with present or
future environmental laws and regulations could result in the imposition of
significant fines against us, the suspension of production or a cessation of
operations.

     We are cooperating with the California Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, or Cal-OSHA, in an investigation regarding impermissible levels
of potentially hazardous materials in certain areas of our manufacturing
facility in Fremont, California. In May 2000, Cal-OSHA levied a fine against us
in the amount of $313,655 for alleged health and safety violations. We are
appealing the citations, and have put in place engineering, administrative and
personnel protective equipment programs to address this issue. To our knowledge,
no accidents or injuries resulted from this matter.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2000, we had 1,359 full-time employees, of whom 1,117
were principally engaged in manufacturing, 176 in sales and administration and
66 in research and development. Of these employees, 826 are located in the U.S.,
531 in China and 2 in Japan. Our success is in part dependent on our ability to
attract and retain highly skilled workers. Our employees are not represented by
a union and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We consider our relations
with our employees to be good.

                                       10
<PAGE>   12

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS

     As of December 31, 2000, our executive officers and directors were as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                NAME                   AGE                           POSITION
                ----                   ---                           --------
<S>                                    <C>    <C>
Morris S. Young, Ph.D. ..............  56     Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and
                                              Chief Executive Officer
Donald L. Tatzin.....................  49     Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
                                              Director
Davis Zhang..........................  44     President, Substrate Division
Xiao Gordon Liu, Ph.D. ..............  37     Senior Vice President, Marketing and Sales, and
                                              Engineering and Development
Heng Liu, Ph.D. .....................  40     President, LED Division
Bingwen Liang, Ph.D. ................  39     President, VCSEL Division
Jesse Chen...........................  42     Director
B.J. Moore...........................  64     Director
David C. Chang, Ph.D.................  59     Director
</TABLE>

     Morris S. Young, Ph.D. co-founded AXT in 1986 and has served as chairman of
our board of directors since February 1998 and president and chief executive
officer, as well as a director, since 1989. From 1985 to 1989, Dr. Young was a
physicist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Dr. Young holds a bachelor
of science degree in metallurgical engineering from Chengkung University,
Taiwan, a master of science degree in metallurgy from Syracuse University and a
Ph.D. in metallurgy from Polytechnic University.

     Donald L. Tatzin has served as a director since February 1998 and as chief
financial officer since August 2000. From April 2000 to August 2000, Mr. Tatzin
served as our interim chief financial officer. From 1993 to 1998, Mr. Tatzin
served as executive vice president of Showboat, a gaming company. In addition,
Mr. Tatzin served as a director for Sydney Harbour Casino, an Australian gaming
company, from April 1995 to October 1996 and as its chief executive officer from
April 1996 to October 1996. From 1976 to 1993, Mr. Tatzin was a director and
consultant with Arthur D. Little. Mr. Tatzin holds a bachelor of science degree
in economics and a bachelor of science and masters degrees in city planning from
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a master of science degree in
economics from Australian National University.

     Davis Zhang co-founded AXT in 1986 and served as senior vice president,
production from January 1994 until August 1999, and as president of the
substrate division since August 1999. From 1987 to 1993, Mr. Zhang served as our
senior production manager. Mr. Zhang holds a bachelor of science degree in
mechanical engineering from Northern Communication University, Beijing, China.

     Xiao Gordon Liu, Ph.D. joined us in June 1995 as senior engineer and was
promoted to vice president, engineering and development in November 1998 and to
senior vice president, marketing and sales, and engineering and development in
August 2000. Prior to joining us, Dr. Liu was a postdoctoral fellow and
associate specialist at University of California at Berkeley and a research
associate at the University of Lund, Sweden. Dr. Liu holds a Ph.D. in physics
from the University of Lund, Sweden and has published more than 30 scientific
papers.

     Heng Liu, Ph.D. joined us in September 1999 as director of LED epitaxy and
was promoted to president of the newly formed LED division in March 2000. From
September 1994 to September 1999, Dr. Liu worked at the opto-electronics
division of Hewlett-Packard Company as a research and development engineer. Dr.
Liu holds an undergraduate degree from National Chiao-Tung University in Taiwan,
a masters degree in physics from University of Oregon and a Ph.D. in engineering
from North Carolina State University.

     Bingwen Liang, Ph.D. joined us in January 2000 as director of advanced
technologies and was subsequently promoted to president of the VCSEL division.
From November 1999 to January 2000, Dr. Liang was research and development
manager of the III-V materials group in the fiber-optic communication division
of Agilent Technologies. From July 1993 to November 1999, Dr. Liang was a
research and development manager for Hewlett-Packard Company. Dr. Liang has a
Ph.D. in applied physics from the University of California at San Diego and has
published more than 45 scientific papers.

                                       11
<PAGE>   13

     Jesse Chen has served as a director since February 1998. Since May 1997,
Mr. Chen has served as a managing director of Maton Venture, an investment
company. Prior to that, Mr. Chen co-founded BusLogic, a computer peripherals
company and served as its chief executive officer from 1990 to 1996. Mr. Chen
serves on the board of directors of several private companies. Mr. Chen has a
bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering from Chenkung University,
Taiwan and a master of science degree in electrical engineering from Loyola
Marymount University.

     B.J. Moore has served as a director since February 1998. Since 1991, Mr.
Moore has been self-employed as a consultant and has served as a director to
several technology-based companies. Mr. Moore currently serves on the boards of
directors for Adaptec, a computer peripherals company and Dionex Corporation, an
ion chromatography systems company, as well as several private companies. From
1986 to 1991, Mr. Moore served as president and chief executive officer of
Outlook Technology, an electronics test equipment company. Mr. Moore holds a
bachelor of science degree and a master of science degree in electrical
engineering from the University of Tennessee.

     David C. Chang, Ph.D. has served as a director since December 14, 2000,
filling the Board position vacated by Theodore Young, who resigned from the
Board in August 2000. Dr. Chang is an internationally recognized scholar in the
field of electromagnetics, he has served as president of Polytechnic University
in New York since 1994. Previously, Dr. Chang was dean of the College of
Engineering and Applied Sciences at Arizona State University for two years.
Formerly a professor of electrical and computer engineering at the University of
Colorado, Dr. Chang served as director of the NSF/Industry Corporate Research
Center for Microwave and Millimeter-Wave Computer Aided Design from 1981 to
1989. Dr. Chang holds a master of science degree and a Ph.D. in applied physics
from Harvard University and a bachelor of science degree in electrical
engineering from National Cheung-Kung University in Taiwan.

BOARD COMPOSITION

     Our board of directors currently consists of five members. Our certificate
of incorporation and bylaws provide that the terms of office of the members of
the board of directors are divided into three classes: class I, whose term will
expire at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2002, class II, whose
term will expire at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2003, and
class III, whose term will expire at the annual meeting of stockholders to be
held in 2001. The class I directors are Morris S. Young and David C. Chang, the
class II directors are Jesse Chen and Donald L. Tatzin and the class III
director is B.J. Moore.

     At each annual meeting of stockholders after the initial classification,
the successors to directors whose term will then expire will be elected to serve
from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting
following their election. As a result, only one class of directors will be
elected at each annual meeting of stockholders, with the other classes
continuing for the remainder of their terms. Any additional directorships
resulting from an increase in the number of directors will be distributed among
the three classes so that, as nearly as possible, each class will consist of
one-third of the total number of directors. This classification of the board of
directors may delay or prevent changes in our control or management. In
addition, our bylaws provide that the authorized number of directors may only be
changed by a resolution of the board of directors.

BOARD COMMITTEES

     The audit committee of our board of directors recommends or will recommend
the appointment of our independent auditors, reviews our internal accounting
procedures and financial statements and consults with and reviews the services
provided by our independent auditors, including the results and scope of their
audit. The audit committee currently consists of Messrs. Chen, Moore and Chang.

     The compensation committee of our board of directors reviews and recommends
to the board the compensation and benefits of all of our executive officers,
administers our stock option plans and establishes and reviews general policies
relating to compensation and benefits of our employees. The compensation
committee currently consists of Messrs. Chen, Moore and Chang.

                                       12
<PAGE>   14

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Since January 1999, there has not been, nor is there currently proposed,
any transaction or series of similar transactions to which we were or are to be
a party in which the amount involved exceeds $60,000, and in which any director,
executive officer or holder of more than 5% of any class of our voting
securities or members of that person's immediate family had or will have a
direct or indirect material interest other than the transactions described
below.

     Equipment & Materials, a California corporation engaged in international
trading and quartzware fabrication, supplies us with various raw materials from
China and has manufactured quartzware for us. Christina X. Li, the sole
shareholder and president of Equipment & Materials, is the wife of Davis Zhang,
the president of our substrate division. Purchases from Equipment & Materials
were approximately $8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, $3.6
million for 1999 and $3.7 million for 1998. A balance of $318,000 due to
Equipment & Materials was included in accounts payable at December 31, 2000.

     In August 2000, we entered into a business transfer and acquisition
agreement with Demeter Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation founded by
Theodore S. Young, the former president of our fiber optic division and a former
member of our board of directors, and Robert Shih, the former chief technology
officer of our visible emitter division. Under this agreement, we have agreed to
transfer certain non-core rights to Demeter relating to our research and
development activities in the field of fiber optics. We have entered into
non-compete agreements with Messrs. Shih and Young that prohibit them from
certain activities, including the manufacture of certain VCSEL devices. We have
leased to Demeter a portion of our owned facility in El Monte, California,
subleased a portion of our rented facility in El Monte, California, leased
certain equipment, including an MOCVD machine, and sold certain inventory
relating to fiber optics. In exchange, Demeter has granted to us a warrant to
purchase up to 4.5 million shares of its Series A convertible preferred stock at
a price of $0.5714 per share which we exercised in November 2000.
