Item 1.     Business — Overview 

      We design, develop, manufacture and distribute high-performance compound semiconductor substrates, as well as opto-electronic semiconductor devices, such as high-brightness light emitting diodes, or HBLEDs, and laser diodes including vertical cavity surface emitting lasers, or VCSELs, and Fabry-Perot laser diodes. Our substrate products are used primarily in wireless communications, lighting display applications, and fiber optic communications. We believe our proprietary vertical gradient freeze, or VGF, technique for manufacturing compound semiconductor substrates provides significant benefits over other methods and has enabled us to become a leading manufacturer of compound semiconductor substrates. We pioneered the commercial use of VGF technology to manufacture gallium arsenide, or GaAs, substrates and used VGF technology to manufacture substrates from other materials, including indium phosphide, or InP, and germanium, or Ge. Some of our competitors followed our lead by developing their own versions of VGF technology. Customers for our substrates include Skyworks Solutions, Agilent Technologies, EMCORE, Kopin, IQE, Nortel Networks, and Sumitomo Chemical. Our acquisition of Lyte Optronics in 1999 provided us with expertise in epitaxial processes for manufacturing opto-electronic semiconductor devices. We use these capabilities to make blue, green and cyan HBLEDs and laser diodes. Our opto-electronic semiconductor devices are used in a wide range of applications, such as solid-state lighting and fiber optic communications. Over the past four years, we have implemented an initiative, which is now largely complete, to reduce the cost of manufacturing our substrates by moving most of our operations to China and by investing in sources of low cost raw materials. We also expanded our HBLED manufacturing capacity in response to an increase in customer demand. 

      We were incorporated in California in December 1986 and reincorporated in Delaware in May 1988. We changed our name from American Xtal Technology, Inc. to AXT, Inc. in July 2000. Our principal offices are located at 4281 Technology Drive, Fremont, California 94538, and our telephone number at this address is (510) 683-5900. Our web site is www.axt.com; however, the information on our web site does not constitute a part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated herein. We make available, free of charge, on or through our web site, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those. 

Industry Background 

      Historically, most semiconductor devices were created on a single crystal base material, or substrate, of silicon. Today, however, many electronic and opto-electronics devices are being developed with requirements that exceed the capabilities of silicon. These devices address the continually increasing demand to send, receive and display information on high-speed wireless and wireline networks. This demand created a growing need for power-efficient high-performance systems that can operate at high frequencies and can be produced cost-effectively in large volumes. These systems enable the growth and development of a wide range of end-user applications. For example, Dataquest, Inc., expects worldwide cellular/PCS handset production to grow from approximately 405 million units in 2002 to approximately 580 million units by 2004. 

      Other examples of applications for these systems include: 

   
  •  voice and high-speed wireless data systems;  
  
  •  infrared emitters and optical detectors in computer systems;  
  
  •  fiber optic networks and optical systems within these networks;  


2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

   
  •  solid-state lighting, including exterior and interior automobile lighting; and  
  
  •  satellite communications systems.  


      As a result of the limitations of silicon-based technologies, semiconductor device manufacturers use compound semiconductor substrates to improve the performance of semiconductor devices and to enable these new applications. This use occurs even though these compound semiconductor substrates are more expensive than silicon. Compound semiconductor substrates are composed of multiple elements that include a metal, such as gallium, aluminum or indium, and a non-metal, such as arsenic, phosphorus or nitrogen. The resulting compounds include gallium arsenide, indium phosphide and gallium nitride. Advantages of devices manufactured on compound substrates over devices manufactured using silicon substrates include: 

   
  •  operation at higher speeds;  
  
  •  lower power consumption;  
  
  •  less noise and distortion; and  
  
  •  opto-electronic properties that enable devices to emit and detect light.  


      A key step in producing a compound semiconductor substrate is to grow a crystal of the materials. Historically, two processes were used to grow crystals: the Liquid Encapsulated Czochralski, or LEC, technique and the Horizontal-Bridgeman, or HB, technique. We believe two trends reduced the appeal of these techniques: more semiconductor devices are being formed using an epitaxial process and semiconductor device manufacturers are switching their production lines to six-inch diameter substrates. The LEC and HB techniques each have difficulties producing high quality, low-cost compound semiconductor substrates for epitaxial processing and substrates produced using this technique have a high volume of defects as size increases beyond four-inches in diameter. We introduced our VGF technique in 1986 to respond to the limitations inherent in the LEC and HB techniques, and, in recent years, some of our competitors who previously relied on the LEC or HB methods have also developed their own versions of VGF. 

      Compound semiconductor substrates enable the development of a wide range of electronic products including power amplifiers and radio frequency integrated circuits used in wireless handsets. Compound substrates can also be used to create opto-electronic products including HBLEDs and VCSELs used in solid-state lighting and fiber optic communications. 

      HBLEDs are solid-state compound semiconductor devices that emit light. The global demand for HBLEDs is experiencing rapid growth because HBLEDs have a long useful life, consume approximately 10% of the power consumed by incandescent or halogen lighting and improve display visibility. Applications where HBLEDs are increasingly used include wireless handset displays, automotive displays, full color video and sign displays, traffic lights and various consumer applications. According to Strategies Unlimited, an independent industry analyst, the market for HBLEDs is expected to grow from $1.8 billion in 2002 to approximately $3.9 billion by 2006. 

The AXT Advantage 

      We are a leading developer and supplier of high-performance compound semiconductor substrates and opto-electronic semiconductor devices, including HBLEDs. There are four key causes of our success: 

      Our VGF technology is a competitive advantage. We pioneered the commercial use of VGF technology to manufacture GaAs substrates and we believe that through the use of VGF we have become a leading worldwide supplier of GaAs substrates, particularly for six-inch diameter substrates. Our VGF process produces substrates with high mechanical strength and physical and chemical uniformity, as well as a low defect rate. The following changes in our customers’ technologies are increasing the share of substrates sold with these features: 

   
  •  Greater use of epitaxy rather than ion implantation. Many of the newest generation of high-performance semiconductor devices for fiber optic and wireless communications applications, including heterojunction bipolar transistors, or HBTs, and pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistors, or  


3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
   
   PHEMTs, are popular because they offer lower power consumption and better device linearity than their predecessors. These devices are created using epitaxial processed substrates. Our VGF substrates are more suitable for these applications than are our competitors’ products manufactured using LEC and HB technologies, and competing materials such as silicon germanium, or SiGe.  
  
  •  Switch to six-inch diameter wafers. Many of our semiconductor device manufacturing customers switched their GaAs production lines to six-inch diameter substrates in order to reduce unit costs and increase capacity. We were among the first competitors able to deliver large volumes of six-inch diameter VGF substrates and retain a significant amount of manufacturing capacity for this product.  
  
  •  Introduction of InP substrates. Even GaAs cannot meet the requirements for system performance and network bandwidth of some potential applications, including SONET OC-768 applications that will operate at speeds up to 40 gigabits per second. While the date of introduction of these applications is uncertain, they are likely to use Indium Phosphide (InP) substrates. We successfully used our VGF technique to develop InP and we were among the first to offer four- and six-inch diameter InP substrates.  


      In addition, VGF technology gives us further benefits. 

   
  •  Customer technology independence. Our semiconductor device manufacturing customers often compete among themselves. For example, several of our customers compete for technological leadership in the wireless handset market. These customers or end-users all manufacture their devices on GaAs substrates. We are, therefore, largely immune from the effects of such competition and benefit from an overall need for faster, more power efficient electronic and opto-electronic devices.  


      Some customers specify VGF substrates. Our wafers are qualified with many of the key suppliers of GaAs and InP semiconductor devices. The qualification process, which is lengthy and must be repeated for each customer, can be a barrier to entry for a new material or supplier. Furthermore, certain of our customers now effectively specify that they will only accept VGF-grown or equivalent substrates for their manufacturing processes. As the businesses of these customers grow, we, and those competitors that developed a technology similar to VGF, are well positioned to capture their business. 

      Our low-cost manufacturing is an advantage. In 1998, we began moving portions of our substrate manufacturing operations to China, to benefit from a combination of lower costs for facilities, labor and materials than we encounter in the United States. That move continued and at the end of 2002 most of our substrate manufacturing activities occur in China. We also made some strategic investments in raw materials producers, including one that produces gallium, that assure us of a secured and low cost source of these materials and enables us to market surplus production to others. By the end of 2003, we anticipate that almost all of our substrate production will be located in China. We believe this provides us with a cost advantage vis-à-vis our competitors. 

      We entered the opto-electronic semiconductor device market quickly through our acquisition of Lyte Optronics. Our acquisition of Lyte Optronics provided us with expertise in epitaxial processes for manufacturing high-volumes of opto-electronic semiconductor devices. High-quality epitaxy is a key requirement for most of today’s advanced opto-electronic semiconductor devices, such as HBLEDs and VCSELs. Since acquiring Lyte Optronics, we developed opto-electronic products that are among the more difficult to create using epitaxy, including blue and green HBLEDs and VCSELs. We have received three United States patents and filed eight additional patent applications for our approach to fabricating HBLEDs. 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

The AXT Strategy 

      Our goals are to strengthen our position as a leading developer and supplier of selected high-performance compound semiconductor substrates and to develop a leading position in the market for opto-electronic semiconductor devices. Key elements of our strategy include: 

      Decrease our substrate manufacturing cost structure. We will continue to shift our substrate manufacturing operations to China and invest in joint ventures to obtain key raw material supplies in order to lower unit production costs. 

      Advance VGF technology leadership. As some of our competitors have introduced production technologies similar to VGF, customers seeking VGF material have had more choice and some have allocated their orders among multiple suppliers. Given the current industry oversupply, customers are rejecting previously approved products if they can obtain higher yields from another supplier. We commit much of our research and development effort to improve the surface characteristics of our substrates and our recently produced substrates do increase customers’ yields compared with our previous products. 

      Strengthen our leadership position in the InP market. We believe that there will be growth in demand for the next generation of high-speed fiber optic devices, such as devices used in SONET OC-768 applications. These products are manufactured on InP substrates and we are positioning ourselves to be the leading supplier of InP substrates. 

      Enhance our opto-electronic semiconductor devices. We intend to further penetrate the HBLED market through continued investment in research and development and selected expansion of production capacity. We expanded our manufacturing capacity by adding metal-organic chemical vapor deposition, or MOCVD, reactors and are modifying our epitaxial process to improve device performance and yield. We invested in the research and infrastructure required to grow our own sapphire substrates, which are used in producing blue, green and cyan HBLEDs. 

Technology 

      Our core technologies include our proprietary VGF technique used to produce high quality crystals that are processed into compound substrates, and our epitaxy technologies that enable us to manufacture blue, green and cyan HBLEDs, VCSELs and edge-emitting laser diodes. 

VGF Furnace Schematic Diagram 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      Our VGF technique is designed to control the crystal-growth process with minimal temperature variation and is the technique we use to produce our GaAs, InP and Ge substrates. Unlike traditional techniques, our VGF technique places the hot compound melt above the cool crystal, thereby reducing the turbulence at the interface of the melt and the solid crystal, compared with the LEC technique in which the melt and crystal are inverted. The temperature gradient between the melt and the crystal in the VGF technique is significantly lower than in traditional techniques. These aspects of the VGF technique enable us to grow crystals that have a relatively low defect density and high uniformity. The crystal and the resulting substrate are mechanically strong, resulting in lower breakage rates during a customer’s manufacturing process. Since the temperature gradient is controlled electronically rather than by physical movement, the sensitive crystal is not disturbed as it may be during some competitors’ VGF-like growth processes. In addition, the melt and growing crystal are contained in a closed chamber, which isolates the crystal from the outside environment to reduce potential contamination. This substrate isolation allows for more precise control of the gallium-to-arsenic ratio, resulting in better consistency and uniformity of the crystals. 

      Our VGF technique offers several benefits when compared to traditional crystal growing technologies. The Liquid Encapsulated Czochralski, or LEC, technique is the traditional method for producing semi-insulating GaAs substrates for electronic applications. During the LEC process, the crystal is grown by dipping a seed crystal through molten boric oxide into a melt and slowly pulling the seed up into the cool zone above the boric oxide where the crystal hardens. Unlike the VGF technique, the LEC technique is designed so that the hotter GaAs melt is located beneath the cooler crystal, resulting in greater turbulence in the melt, and at a temperature gradient that is significantly higher than the VGF technique. The turbulence and high temperature cause LEC-grown crystals to have a higher dislocation density than VGF-grown crystals, resulting in a higher rate of breakage during the device manufacturing process. As an open process, the LEC technique also results in greater propensity for contamination and difficulty controlling the ratio of gallium to arsenic. It requires large, complex electro-mechanical systems that are expensive and require highly skilled personnel to operate. 

      Our VGF technique also offers advantages over the Horizontal-Bridgeman, or HB, technique, for producing semi-conducting GaAs substrates for opto-electronic applications. The HB technique holds the GaAs melt in a semi-cylindrical container, causing crystals grown using the HB method to have a semi-circular, or D-shaped, cross-section. Accordingly, more crystal material is discarded when the D-shaped substrate is subsequently trimmed to a round shape. In addition, crystals grown using the HB technique have a higher defect density than VGF-grown crystals. The HB technique cannot be used cost-effectively to produce substrates greater than three inches in diameter. The HB technique houses the GaAs melt in a quartz container during the growth process, which can contaminate the GaAs melt with silicon impurities, making it unsuitable for producing semi-insulating GaAs substrates. 

      The following table provides a comparison of these three techniques: 

              
  VGF  HB  LEC 
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Substrate applications    Electronic and opto-electronic    Opto-electronic    Electronic  
Largest wafer size available    6”    3”    6”  
Stress/defect levels    Very Low    Low    High  
Crystal purity    Good    Poor    Good  
Applicability to multiple materials    GaAs, InP, Ge    GaAs    GaAs, InP, GaP  
Equipment and labor cost    Very Low    Low    High  
Amount of waste material    Very Low    High    Low  
Equipment flexibility    Versatile    Limited    Limited  
Equipment downtime    Minimal    Moderate    High  
Number of competitors    Several    Declining    Declining  

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      Many major substrate purchasers have adjusted their product specifications to effectively allow only VGF or equivalent material. Some have simultaneously tightened their specifications for surface characteristics that causes them to reject material they had previously approved. We are improving our surface characteristics so that we fully comply with customer requirements. 

      We create our opto-electronic semiconductor devices using MOCVD, which is an epitaxial technique to synthesize compound semiconductor thin films onto substrates. MOCVD reactors are available from multiple sources and wafers fabricated using MOCVD generally possess a better combination of uniformity and optical and electronic properties and are easier to produce cost-effectively in high volumes than wafers manufactured by other methods, such as molecular beam epitaxy, vapor phase epitaxy or liquid phase epitaxy. As a result, MOCVD reactors have become the choice of the opto-electronics industry for fabricating devices such as LEDs, VCSELs and laser diodes. We modify our MOCVD reactors to improve their performance and use a proprietary growth recipe that controls temperature, material impurity, defect density, material thickness and layer composition while allowing for multiple wafer batch replication. 

Products 

      We design, develop, manufacture and distribute high-performance semiconductor substrates, as well as opto-electronic devices, such as HBLEDs, VCSELs and laser diodes. The table below sets forth our products and selected applications: 

                    
   
Product  Applications 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
       
Substrates   Electronic   Opto-electronic 
  GaAs    •    Cellular phones    •    LEDs  
      •    Direct broadcast television    •    Lasers  
      •    High-performance transistors    •    Optical couplers  
      •    Satellite communications          
  InP    •    Fiber optic communications    •    Lasers  
      •    Satellite communications          
      •    High-performance transistors          
      •    Automotive collision avoidance radars          
  Ge    •    Satellite solar cells          
Opto-electronics                 
  Blue, green and cyan HBLEDs            •    Full color displays  
              •    Automobile interior and exterior lighting  
              •    Traffic signals  
              •    Back lighting for cellular phones, instrument panels, etc.  
              •    White light for general illumination  
  VCSELs            •    Fiber optic and wireless communications  
              •    Storage area networks  
  Laser Diodes            •    Fiber optic and wireless communications  

      Substrates. We currently sell compound substrates manufactured from GaAs and InP, as well as single-element substrates manufactured from Ge. We supply GaAs substrates in two-, three-, four-, five- and six- 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

inch diameters. We manufacture InP substrates in two-, three- and four-inch diameters and Ge substrates in four-inch diameters. We developed and may initiate production of sapphire substrates. 
      Opto-electronics. We sell blue, green and cyan HBLED products in wafer and chip form. We began selling blue HBLED products in the first quarter of 2000 and in 2001 began shipping green and cyan HBLEDs. We introduced our first VSCEL product in August 2000 and introduced a range of Fabry-Parot laser products beginning in 2001 and early 2002. 

Customers 

      We sell our compound semiconductor substrates worldwide to leading semiconductor device manufacturers. Our substrate customers include: 

          
Agilent Technologies
Coherent Tutcore
EMCORE
Exim and Mfr. Enterprise
Gore Photonics
IQE, Inc.
Kopin    Motorola
Nortel Networks
Osram
Picogiga
Procomp Informatics
Skyworks Solutions
Spectro-Physics    Sumitomo Chemical
Triquent Semiconductor
TRW Space & Defense
Uni Light Technology
United Epitaxy Company
Visual Photonics Epitaxy  

      We sell our HBLED products primarily to customers that incorporate them into lighting products. Our HBLED customers include Agilent, Metairie, Harvatek, Liteon, Kindwin, and Seoul Semiconductor. 

      Historically, we have sold a significant portion of our products in any particular period to a limited number of customers. Our five largest customers accounted for 35.6% of our total revenue from continuing operations in 2002, 28.3 % in 2001, and 26.1% in 2000. One customer accounted for 10.7% of our revenue in 2002 and no customer accounted for more than 10% percent of our total revenue in 2001 or 2000. We expect that sales to certain customers will continue to comprise a significant portion of our revenue in the future. 

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies 

      We believe that our success is partially due to our manufacturing efficiency and high product yields and we continually emphasize quality and process control throughout our manufacturing operations. We perform our substrate manufacturing operations at our facilities in Beijing, China and Fremont, California. As part of our plan to reduce substrate manufacturing costs, we shifted most of our processes to our facilities in China, where costs are generally lower. We intend to transfer the vast majority, if not all, of our substrate manufacturing operations to China by the end of 2003. We believe that our capital investment and subsequent operating costs are lower for our manufacturing facilities in China relative to the U.S. Many of our manufacturing operations are fully automated and computer monitored or controlled, enhancing reliability and yield. We use proprietary equipment in our substrate manufacturing operations to protect our intellectual property and control the timing and pace of capacity additions. Our epitaxial wafer production is located in El Monte, California and our wafer fabrication and die fabrication activities for our opto-electronics products are located in Monterey Park, California, Beijing, China, and Xiamen, China. All of our manufacturing facilities are ISO 9001 or 9002 certified. 

      Although we purchase supply parts, components and raw materials from several domestic and international suppliers, we depend on a single or limited number of suppliers for certain critical materials used in the production of our substrates and opto-electronics products. We generally purchase these materials through standard purchase orders and not pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Although we seek to maintain sufficient inventory levels of certain materials to guard against interruptions in supply and to meet our near term needs, and have to date been able to obtain sufficient supplies of materials in a timely manner, there may be shortages of certain key materials, such as gallium. Accordingly, to help ensure continued supply of materials, we formed strategic alliances with and made investments in some suppliers of key raw materials required to manufacture our products. We believe that these alliances and investments will be advantageous in procuring materials to support our growth. In addition, excess capacity is marketed to others, enabling us to expand our markets and discouraging our alliance partners from becoming too dependent upon us. 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      We use MOCVD equipment to manufacture our opto-electronics devices. We qualified two new MOCVD reactors during the past twelve months and have one reactor awaiting qualification. The substrate materials and raw wafers used in our opto-electronics products are purchased from our substrate division and other sources. 

Sales and Marketing 

      Each of our divisions is responsible for its own sales and marketing activities, and each maintains its own sales and marketing personnel. In addition, each of our divisions advertises in trade publications, distributes promotional materials, publishes technical articles, conducts marketing programs and participates in industry trade shows and conferences in order to raise market awareness of our products. 

      Substrates. We sell our substrate products through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Japan and through independent sales representatives in France, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Our direct sales force consists of sales engineers who are knowledgeable in the manufacture and use of compound and single-element substrates. Our sales engineers work with customers during all stages of the substrate manufacturing process, from developing the precise composition of the substrate through manufacturing and processing the substrate to the customer’s exact specifications. We believe that maintaining a close relationship with customers and providing them with ongoing technical support improves customer satisfaction and will provide us with a competitive advantage in selling other substrates to our customers. The substrate division launched a program in late 2000 with selected customers in which we guaranteed that certain volumes of six-inch GaAs and other substrates would be delivered on specific dates and the customer made a prepayment for part of the value of its order. Several major customers participate in this program which we expect will conclude during 2003. At December 31, 2002, the unearned pre-payments equaled $2.2 million. 

      Opto-electronics. We sell our HBLED products through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Taiwan and through independent sales representatives to lamp package manufacturers in Asia. We intend to expand sales of these products in the U.S. and Europe primarily using our direct sales force. We sell our VCSEL and edge emitting laser diodes through our direct sales force and through independent sales representatives. 

      International Sales. International sales are an important part of our business. In the year ended December 31, 2002, sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 58.2% of our revenue, as compared with 50.4% in 2001 and with 48.2% in 2000. The primary markets for sales of our products outside of the United States include countries in Asia and Western Europe. Our ability to sustain and increase our international sales involves significant risks, including volatile political, social and economic instabilities abroad, possible fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and changes in tariffs, import restrictions or other trade barriers. 

Research and Development 

      To maintain and improve our competitive position, we focus our research and development efforts on designing new proprietary processes and products, improving the performance of existing products and reducing manufacturing costs. We have assembled a multi-disciplinary team of highly skilled scientists, engineers and technicians to meet our research and development objectives. 

      Our current substrate research and development activities focus on continued development and enhancement of six-inch GaAs crystals, including improved yield, enhanced surface characteristics and uniformity, greater substrate strength and increased crystal length. We developed and intend to initiate production of sapphire substrates. 

      We are focusing on all three major stages of HBLED development: epitaxy, wafer fabrication and die fabrication. Our goal is to improve brightness and yield, create products with a narrowly banded range of features including, for example, wavelength, brightness, and forward voltage, and enhance uniformity of product, both within and across production runs. Specific colors are created by controlling the indium content of the epitaxial layers, which we achieve, in part, from modifications that we make to our MOCVD reactors. 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

The wafer and die fabrication experience we gained in our Lyte Optronics laser diode operation has helped us develop similar techniques for HBLEDs. 
      Research and development expenses were $4.9 million in 2002, compared with $8.2 million in 2001, and $8.8 million in 2000. 

Competition 

      The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change and price erosion, as well as intense foreign and domestic competition. We believe we currently have a leading position in the existing markets for compound semiconductor substrates primarily as a result of our expertise in VGF technology. However, we believe we face actual and potential competition from a number of established domestic and international companies. 

      We believe that the primary competitive factors in the markets in which our products compete are: 

   
  •  quality;  
  
  •  price;  
  
  •  performance;  
  
  •  meeting customer specifications;  
  
  •  customer support and satisfaction; and  
  
  •  customer investment in competing technologies.  


      Our ability to compete in target markets also depends on factors such as: 

   
  •  the timing and success of the development and introduction of new products by us and our competitors;  
  
  •  the availability of adequate sources of raw materials; and  
  
  •  protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws and general economic conditions.  


      Our primary competition in the market for compound semiconductor substrates includes Freiberger, Japan Energy and Sumitomo Electric. In addition, we also face competition from compound semiconductor device manufacturers that produce substrates for their own internal use, and from companies such as IBM and Motorola that are actively developing alternative compound semiconductor materials. 

      Our primary competitors in the market for HBLED products include Arima, Cree, LumiLED, Nichia Chemicals, Toyoda Gosei and United Epitaxy. In general, HBLED manufacturers in Taiwan and China have a competitive pricing advantage due to low overhead and small research and development investments. Cree, Nichia Chemicals, Sony and Toyoda Gosei have significant patent portfolios that other competitors, including us, must either design around or license. 

      We primarily compete with EMCORE, Honeywell, Trulight, Picolight, Zarlink, Infineon, Cielo and E2O in the market for VCSEL devices. 

Protection of our Intellectual Property 

      Our success and the competitive position of our VGF technique depend on our ability to maintain trade secrets and other intellectual property protections. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary technology. We believe that, due to the rapid pace of technological innovation in the markets for our products, our ability to establish and maintain a position of technology leadership depends as much on the skills of our development personnel as upon the legal protections afforded our existing technologies. To protect our trade secrets, we take certain measures to ensure their secrecy, such as executing non-disclosure agreements with our employees, customers and suppliers. However, reliance on trade secrets is only an 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

effective business practice insofar as trade secrets remain undisclosed and a proprietary product or process is not reverse engineered or independently developed. 
      To date, we have been issued one U.S. patents and have three U.S. patent applications pending, which relate to our VGF products and processes. We have three U.S. patents and eight U.S. patent applications pending which relate to our HBLED or laser diode technology, and have patent applications pending in Europe, Canada, China, Japan and Korea which are based on one of our U.S. patents that relates to our VGF and opto-electronic processes. We have no issued foreign patents. 

Environmental Regulations 

      We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws, rules and regulations govern the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals during manufacturing, research and development and sales demonstrations. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be subject to substantial liability for clean-up efforts, personal injury and fines or suspension or cessation of our operations. We cooperated with the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or Cal-OSHA, in an investigation primarily regarding impermissible levels of potentially hazardous materials in certain areas of our manufacturing facility in Fremont, California. In May 2000, Cal-OSHA levied a fine against us in the amount of $313,655 for alleged health and safety violations. In March 2001, we settled this claim in the amount of $200,415, and have put in place engineering, administrative and personnel protective equipment programs to address these issues. On May 1, 2001, the Santa Clara Center for Occupational Safety and Health (SCCOSH) filed a complaint for injunctive relief and civil penalties against us alleging violations of California Business Professions Code 17200 et seq., and Health and Safety Code section 25249 et seq. as a result of our use of arsenic and inorganic arsenic compounds in our workplace. We reached a settlement with SCCOSH during 2002. See “Legal Proceedings” below. 

Employees 

      As of December 31, 2002, we had 1,306 employees, of whom 1,075 were principally engaged in manufacturing, 197 in sales and administration, and 34 in research and development. Of these employees, 317 are located in the U.S., 988 in China and 1 in Japan. As a result of shifting more of our substrate manufacturing to China, we implemented headcount reductions in our Fremont, California facilities, and expect further reductions as our shift of our manufacturing activities to China is completed by the end of 2003. Our success is in part dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled workers. Our employees are not represented by a union and we have never experienced a work stoppage. Although morale has been affected by our workforce reductions, we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 
