ITEM 1. BUSINESS

         Broadcom Corporation is the leading provider of highly integrated
silicon solutions that enable broadband digital transmission of voice, video and
data to and throughout the home and within the business enterprise. These
integrated circuits permit the cost effective delivery of high-speed,
high-bandwidth networking using existing communications infrastructures that
were not originally designed for the transmission of broadband digital content.
Using proprietary technologies and advanced design methodologies, we
design, develop and supply integrated circuits for a number of the most
significant broadband communications markets, including the markets for digital
cable set-top boxes, cable modems, high-speed office networks, home networking,
direct broadcast satellite and terrestrial digital broadcast, and digital
subscriber lines. Although the communications infrastructures of these markets
are very different, we have leveraged our core technologies and introduced
integrated circuits for each of these markets that deliver the cost and
performance levels necessary to enable the widespread deployment of broadband
transmission services. Our broadband transmission products consist primarily of
high-performance digital signal processing circuits that implement complex
communications algorithms, surrounded by precision high-speed analog-to-digital
and digital-to-analog converter circuits. Our products integrate comprehensive
systems solutions into single chips or chipsets, which:

         o eliminate costly external components;

         o reduce board space;

         o simplify our customer's manufacturing process;

         o lower our customer's system costs; and

         o enable higher performance.

         Customers currently shipping broadband communications equipment
incorporating our products include 3Com, Cisco Systems, General Instrument
(which was acquired by Motorola in January 2000), Hewlett-Packard, Motorola,
Nortel Networks, Pace, Samsung, Scientific-Atlanta and Thomson CE, among
others.


                                       1


<PAGE>   5

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

         In recent years, there has been a dramatic increase in business and
consumer demand for high-speed access to multimedia information and
entertainment content, consisting of voice, video and data. This demand is being
driven by the growth of desirable information and entertainment content
accessible via the Internet and cable and data networks. The improved
availability and affordability of access devices such as digital set-top boxes,
PCs and other consumer appliances have also stimulated demand for high-speed
transmissions. Computer processor speeds have increased dramatically over the
last decade and, as a result, have significantly improved the rate at which
multimedia data can be processed. However, the rate at which such data can be
transmitted has not kept pace. This disparity has become known as the "bandwidth
gap" and has frustrated users and challenged solutions providers in a number of
markets.

         The bandwidth gap has emerged in a variety of commercial and consumer
applications. Businesses are constantly seeking new ways to access and analyze
larger amounts of information to improve the quality of management decisions and
enhance customer and employee communications. Many businesses have deployed
local area networks, commonly known as LANs, which are principally based upon
the Ethernet standard. Ethernet is the predominant networking protocol used in
LANs for connecting devices at data rates of 10, 100 and 1000 Megabits
per second ("Mbps") by means of copper twisted pair cabling. Emerging trends
such as the convergence of voice, video and data along with the ever-increasing
volumes of electronic traffic are placing new demands on legacy LAN technologies
and infrastructures. Businesses would prefer to address these new demands
without incurring the cost of installing new cabling or switching network
technologies. In order to accommodate the need for more bandwidth, much of the
installed base of 10 Mbps Ethernet ports will need to be upgraded to higher
speed 100 and 1000 Mbps connections. Furthermore, real-time traffic such as
voice and video will not only place additional demands on network bandwidth, but
will also require intelligence and deterministic behavior provided by devices
referred to as switches. Switches provide dedicated bandwidth to each end-user,
versus repeaters, which share the bandwidth among end-users.

         Individuals are also increasingly using their home PCs to access the
Internet and to telecommute. Consumer online usage is expected to increase
rapidly with the availability and market acceptance of low cost PCs (sub $1,000)
and the increased availability and improving quality of content. In addition,
the increasing number of next generation television set-top boxes, PCs and other
devices that feature integrated Internet access will contribute to the surging
demand for rapid access to information. As the volume of traffic continues to
grow, consumers are becoming increasingly frustrated with the low performance of
"last mile" remote access connections that are typically limited to data rates
of only 28.8 kbps to 56 kbps and require several minutes or hours to download
large multimedia-intensive files.

         Business and residential PC users have not been the only ones affected
by the bandwidth gap. Cable television subscribers seeking more entertainment
options, including Internet access, and cable service providers seeking higher
revenue services beyond basic cable, have generally been frustrated by the
limited amount of programming that can be provided over the existing cable
infrastructure. The cable infrastructure historically also has not been able to
deliver interactive multimedia content. With the advent of digital television
and digital compression technologies such as MPEG, the conversion from analog
transmission to digital transmission enables a dramatic increase in the number
of channels available to the subscriber. In late 1996, cable television service
providers began offering expanded services, including digital programming
through new digital set-top boxes, as well as high-speed Internet access and
telecommuting through cable modems. A cable modem is a device that allows a
cable subscriber to transmit and receive data over coaxial cable. In order to
satisfy customer demand for increased programming and other entertainment
options, and to capitalize on the revenue growth opportunities associated with
these expanded services, service providers will have to deploy a new generation
of digital set-top boxes and headend equipment. A headend is the central
distribution point in a cable television system.

         Much of the bandwidth gap is a result of the existing "last mile"
communications infrastructure, which was originally designed for lower speed
analog transmission rather than high-speed digital transmission. This
infrastructure consists primarily of copper twisted pair wiring, coaxial cable
and wireless communication connections. Copper twisted pair wiring was
originally intended for the transmission of narrowband analog voice while
coaxial cable was intended for delivery of one-way analog video signals. These
analog infrastructures have numerous impairments, which make broadband
transmission of digital data very difficult.


                                       2


<PAGE>   6

         Because it is impractical to replace these communications
infrastructures with entirely new infrastructures that are optimized for digital
data transmission, the fundamental challenge for service and equipment providers
is to enable broadband communications over existing infrastructures. These
providers are in a race to introduce new cost-effective technologies and
products into the broadband communications marketplace.

MARKETS

         The principal broadband communications markets include:

         Digital Cable Set-Top Boxes

         The last decade has seen rapid growth in the quantity and diversity in
television programming. Despite ongoing efforts to upgrade the existing cable
infrastructure, an inadequate number of channels exist to provide the content
demanded by consumers. In an effort to increase the number of channels and to
provide higher picture quality, cable service providers began offering digital
programming in 1996 through the use of new digital cable set-top boxes. These
digital cable set-top boxes facilitate high-speed digital communications between
a subscriber's television and the cable network. Digital cable set-top boxes
currently able to support downstream (to the subscriber) transmission speeds of
up to 43 Mbps (North American standard) or 56 Mbps (international standard), and
several hundred MPEG-2 compressed digital television channels to be delivered to
the consumer. Additional applications for digital cable set-top boxes include
Internet access, interactive television, high definition television, audio
players and cable telephony. A new generation of digital cable set-top boxes is
being introduced to facilitate television Internet access, to support high
definition television and to provide a gateway for the distribution of voice,
video and data throughout the home and business.

         Cable Modems

         Cable television operators have been upgrading their systems to hybrid
fiber coaxial cable, commonly known as HFC in the telecommunications industry.
These upgraded HFC networks are able to support two-way communications,
high-speed Internet access and telecommuting through the use of a cable modem.
High-speed Internet access services, including @Home and RoadRunner, were
introduced in 1996 in conjunction with several cable system operators. These
services use cable modems to connect PCs to the cable network and have been
designed to achieve downstream transmission speeds of up to 43 Mbps (North
American standard) or 56 Mbps (international standard), and upstream (to the
network) transmission speeds of up to 10 Mbps. These transmission rates are
nearly 1,000 times faster than the fastest analog telephone modems (56 kbps
downstream and 28.8 kbps upstream) currently available. We believe the high
speeds of cable modems should enable an entirely new generation of
multimedia-rich content over the Internet and make telecommuting a productive
and effective means for work at home. Cable modems will allow cable operators to
expand their traditional video product offerings to include data and telephone
services. The cable industry's adoption of the Data Over Cable Service Interface
Specification, commonly known as DOCSIS, in 1997 made possible interoperability
between different manufacturers' cable modems and headend equipment across
different cable networks. The standard enables the cost-effective deployment of
cable modems via retail channels.

         High-Speed Networking

         A LAN is comprised of different types of equipment interconnected by
cables. Computers and servers via Network Interface Cards ("NICs"), repeaters,
switches and routers are all examples of networking equipment. Ethernet is a
computer networking protocol that describes a set of rules by which devices
connected to a LAN may communicate. Ethernet physical layer standards have been
established for different data rates (10, 100 and 1000 Mbps) and transmission
mediums (copper, fiber and coax cabling). 100 Mbps Ethernet is sometimes
referred to as Fast Ethernet, and 1000 Mbps is referred to as Gigabit Ethernet.

         As communications bottlenecks have appeared in corporate LANs, new
technologies such as Fast Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet are being employed to
replace older technologies such as 10Base-T Ethernet (10 Mbps) and Token Ring
(16 Mbps). As desktop connections continue to migrate to Fast Ethernet, we
believe that Gigabit Ethernet will emerge as the predominant technology for
servers and backbone infrastructures that support LANs, and will eventually
migrate to the desktop itself. We anticipate that a significant portion of the
installed base of 10Base-T


                                       3


<PAGE>   7

Ethernet repeater/hub ports, switches and NICs will be upgraded to the faster
technologies. In addition, the need for dedicated and predictable bandwidth to
the desktop is driving a transition from legacy repeater to switch connections.
Switches will not only have the ability to provide dedicated bandwidth to each
connection, but will also provide routing functionality and possess the
intelligence to deal with differentiated traffic such as voice, video and data.

         Home Networking

         The proliferation of multi-PC households increases the need for home
networking solutions and lays the foundation for extending the reach of the
shared broadband Internet access, video transfer and voice at high speeds
throughout the home and small office. The industry's adoption of the Home
Phoneline Networking Alliance's (HomePNA(TM)) 2.0 standard for 10 Mbps home
networking technology has met this need by enabling the development of
affordable, easy-to-use networking solutions for the consumer. This standard
delivers a 10 Mbps data rate for home phoneline networking while maintaining
full backward compatibility and interoperability with existing HomePNA 1 Mbps
technology. We believe this standard will enable the ubiquitous delivery of
voice, video and data concurrently to any network-enabled appliance, PC or
consumer electronic device over ordinary phone lines at speeds of 10 Mbps and
higher and provides a complete, standards-based silicon platform for a host of
new consumer devices and applications.

         DBS, Terrestrial Digital Broadcast and Broadband Fixed Wireless

         Digital Broadcast Satellite, commonly known as DBS, is the primary
alternative to cable for providing digital television programming. DBS can be
used to transmit information at speeds of up to 90 Mbps. DBS broadcasts video
and audio data from satellites directly to digital set-top boxes in the home via
dish antennas. Due to the ability of DBS to provide television programming where
no cable infrastructure is in place, we believe that the U.S. market for DBS may
eventually be surpassed by the international market where the cable
infrastructure is generally less extensive.

         Other broadband wireless technologies include:

         o  Terrestrial Digital Broadcast Television, the upgrade of analog
            broadcast television to digital, which enables the delivery of high
            definition television;

         o  Multichannel Multipoint Distribution System, commonly known as MMDS,
            which uses microwave frequencies (below 10 GHz) to transmit voice,
            video and data over two-way terrestrial digital microwave channels
            to digital set-top boxes and wireless modems; and

         o  Local Multipoint Distribution System, commonly known as LMDS, which
            uses even higher microwave frequencies (above 10 GHz) to transmit
            voice, video and data to digital set-top boxes and wireless modems
            over a shorter distance via a cellular-like network.

         MMDS and LMDS are wireless systems that are currently being tested in
limited deployments. In the U.S. market, the MMDS and LMDS industry has
experienced significant license holder consolidation, which may lead to greater
investment in equipment and service for these markets. These new networks, which
are able to provide programming in areas that do not have cable, will also
require a digital set-top box or wireless modem.

         We are currently developing products specifically for the MMDS and LMDS
(broadband fixed wireless) markets as part of an agreement with Cisco Systems
that we announced in October 1999.

         Beginning in 1999, the FCC has mandated that the top four affiliated
television stations begin digital broadcasting and has required that all current
television broadcasters and their affiliates return the old analog spectrum by
the year 2006 for FCC auction. ABC, CBS and NBC have announced that they are
transmitting high definition television signals in some markets and will
continue to expand that offering in 2000 and in the future. We believe this
conversion to digital broadcasting will also require new digital set-top boxes
and television receivers.

                                       4
<PAGE>   8

         xDSL

         Digital Subscriber Lines, commonly known as xDSL, represent a family of
broadband technologies that use the copper twisted pair wiring in the existing
telephone local loops to deliver high speed data transmission. xDSL speeds range
from 128 kbps to 52 Mbps depending on the distance between the central office
and the subscriber. These data rates are enabling a wide range of new services,
including high-speed Internet access, multi-line voice and digital television
delivery. Most major North American and European telephone operating companies
are deploying asymmetric DSL (ADSL) and symmetric DSL (SDSL) in selected areas
in their networks. There has also been a significant increase in the amount of
xDSL deployed in the Far East, notably in Korea. For the most part, ADSL is
targeted towards residential customers, while SDSL is offered to business
customers. The major Internet service providers are also embracing xDSL
technologies.

         While ADSL and SDSL can provide high-speed Internet access and
multi-line voice, neither of these technologies is well suited for
transmission of entertainment quality video. Very High Bit-Rate DSL (VDSL)
is the latest technology in the DSL family to address this need. VDSL is now
in volume deployment in the U.S. and Canada. Capable of transmission rates four
to five times faster than the highest ADSL rates and leveraging increased fiber
build-outs by the operators, this technology enables telephone companies to
offer complete broadband service offerings delivering voice, video and data
services to the home over their existing wiring infrastructure.

                                  *    *    *

         These broadband communications markets are at different phases in their
evolution. High-speed networking is an established market that is currently
being upgraded, cable modems, digital cable and DBS set-top boxes are, on a
global basis, in an early growth phase, and the home networking and xDSL markets
are emerging.

         The desire by equipment manufacturers and service providers to develop
these markets has created the need for new generations of semiconductor
solutions. Broadband transmission of digital information over existing
infrastructures requires highly integrated mixed-signal semiconductor solutions
to perform critical systems functions such as complex signal processing and
converting digital data to and from analog signals. Broadband communications
equipment requires substantially higher levels of system performance, in terms
of both speed and precision, that typically cannot be adequately addressed by
traditional semiconductor solutions developed for low speed transmission
applications. Moreover, solutions that are based on multiple discrete analog and
digital chips generally cannot achieve the cost-effectiveness, performance and
reliability required by the broadband communications markets. These requirements
are best addressed by new generations of highly integrated mixed-signal devices
that combine complex analog and digital functions with high performance
circuitry that can be manufactured in high volumes using cost-effective
semiconductor technologies.

THE BROADCOM SOLUTION

         Broadcom Corporation is the leading provider of highly integrated
silicon solutions that enable broadband digital data transmission of voice,
video and data to and throughout the home and within the business enterprise.
Using our proprietary communications algorithms and protocols, advanced DSP
architectures, silicon compiler design methodologies and full-custom,
mixed-signal circuit design techniques, we have designed and developed
integrated circuits for some of the most significant broadband communications
markets. Our expertise in communications algorithms and our detailed
understanding of transmission media enable us to integrate complex systems
incorporating signal processing functions such as digital demodulation, adaptive
equalization and error correction in a single device. In addition, our broad
knowledge of advanced communications protocols enables us to design protocol
processing integrated circuits that seamlessly interface our mixed-signal
transceiver integrated circuits with higher-level networking layers for
communications applications.

         We develop all of our products using low-cost, highly-manufacturable
complementary metal oxide semiconductor technologies, commonly known as CMOS,
that enable us to integrate comprehensive systems solutions into single chips,
thereby eliminating costly external components, reducing board space,
simplifying the customer's equipment manufacturing process, lowering customer
system costs and enabling higher performance. Our proprietary technology and
advanced design methodologies facilitate a high likelihood of first pass silicon
success, accelerated time-to-market, and ease of porting to multiple foundries.
Our design methodologies also allow us to rapidly and cost-effectively
incorporate proprietary features or intellectual property from our key strategic
customers into products that are exclusive to those customers, thereby enabling
them to differentiate their products.


                                        5


<PAGE>   9

     STRATEGY

         Our objective is to be the leading provider of highly integrated
silicon solutions to the worldwide broadband communications markets. Key
elements of our strategy include the following:

         Target Multiple High-Growth Broadband Communications Markets. Our
         strategy is to identify rapidly growing broadband digital
         communications markets and to develop highly integrated silicon
         solutions for applications in those markets. Our initial products were
         designed for the digital cable set-top box, cable modem and high-speed
         networking markets, which require high-performance, feature-rich and
         highly integrated semiconductor solutions. We have recently leveraged
         our core technologies to design and develop semiconductor solutions for
         the home networking, DBS, terrestrial digital broadcast, broadband
         wireless and xDSL markets, which we believe have significant growth
         potential.

         Strengthen and Expand Strategic Relationships with Industry Leaders. We
         have established strategic relationships with key equipment
         manufacturers, including 3Com, Cisco Systems, General Instrument,
         Hewlett-Packard, Motorola, Nortel Networks and Pace, which are market
         and technology leaders within the broadband communications markets.
         While we design products that can be used by multiple customers, our
         proprietary design methodologies allow us to design custom features
         rapidly based on either our own or our customers' intellectual
         property. This capability enables our customers to improve their
         time-to-market, differentiate their products and address new market
         opportunities. We believe that these strategic relationships are
         essential to our continued growth and to the further development and
         acceptance of our technologies.

         Extend Technology Leadership and Achieve Rapid Time-to-Market. We are
         aggressively building on our technology leadership by investing
         substantial research and development resources in all of our key
         technology areas. We work closely with leading communications systems
         companies to develop new and enhanced algorithms that address next
         generation broadband market opportunities. Our strategy is to continue
         to implement these algorithms in highly integrated, full-custom
         integrated circuits using DSP architectures that optimize performance,
         efficiency and cost. During product development, we leverage our
         silicon compiler technologies and proprietary circuit libraries and
         layouts of high-performance analog and digital chip building blocks,
         to accelerate time-to-market for new products. Our silicon solutions
         for each of these markets benefit from the same underlying core
         technologies, providing us significant leverage in our ability to
         address a diverse set of end user markets with a relatively focused
         investment in research and development.

         Drive Industry Standards. We actively participate in the formulation of
         critical standards for the broadband communications markets. We believe
         such participation provides us with several significant benefits,
         including accelerating and expanding the development of markets for our
         products by encouraging all market participants to focus their efforts
         on developing products compliant with the standards. We also believe
         our participation in the formulation of industry standards provides us
         with valuable insight and relationships, which assists us to be early
         to market with products incorporating the standards. We have
         established strategic relationships with major networking equipment and
         cable modem vendors and were a principal participant in formulating and
         writing DOCSIS. These standards govern the end-to-end delivery of
         high-speed data services over HFC cable networks and facilitate the
         development of interoperable networking products, including cable
         modems. Our active participation in this process helped us to be the
         first provider of transmission and protocol chips to equipment
         manufacturers developing DOCSIS compliant products. We are also
         currently participating in the formulation and evolution of standards
         for next generation cable modems, voice-over-cable, Gigabit Ethernet,
         broadband fixed wireless, home networking systems and xDSL.

         Focus on Highly Integrated Solutions. We believe our analog
         mixed-signal technology and advanced design methodologies enable us to
         offer silicon solutions that are more highly integrated than
         competitive alternatives. High levels of integration and aggressive
         product development roadmaps allow us to enhance the value-added
         benefits of our products in our customers' systems. We believe
         integration, which reduces the total component count in the system,
         provides many fundamental benefits for our customers, including
         streamlining their production flow, improving yields, saving board
         space, shortening time-to-market, reducing production costs and
         improving performance and reliability. These benefits have often helped
         our customers to achieve faster and broader penetration within their
         respective markets.

         Engage in Strategic Acquisitions. To accelerate our time-to-market for
         particular products and technologies, to facilitate and expedite our
         entry into new or related broadband communications markets, and to meet
         engineering staffing requirements, we engage in selective acquisitions
         of other companies. Since January 1999 we have completed eight such
         acquisitions, and we expect to undertake additional acquisitions in
         2000 and in the future.

                                       6


<PAGE>   10

CUSTOMERS AND STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS

         We sell our products to leading manufacturers of broadband
communications equipment in each of our target markets. Because we leverage our
technology across different markets, certain of our integrated circuits may be
incorporated into equipment used in several different markets.

         Customers currently shipping broadband communications equipment
incorporating our products include 3Com, Cisco Systems, General Instrument,
Hewlett-Packard, Motorola, Nortel Networks, Pace, Samsung, Scientific-Atlanta
and Thomson CE, among others.

         As part of our business strategy, we periodically establish strategic
relationships with certain key customers. In September 1997, we entered into a
Development, Supply and License Agreement with General Instrument. This
agreement provides that we will develop chips for General Instrument's digital
cable set-top boxes and supply these chips to General Instrument for four years.
General Instrument agreed to purchase 100% of its requirements for components
containing transmission, communications or video decompression (MPEG) functions
for its digital cable set-top box subscriber products from us in the first year
of this agreement. General Instrument's purchase requirements are subject to our
good faith efforts to maintain our competitive position with respect to these
components. The percentage of its product requirements that General Instrument
must purchase from us declines each year over the term of the agreement to 45%
of General Instrument's requirements in 2001. General Instrument also granted us
a royalty-bearing, perpetual, nonexclusive, worldwide license to use its MPEG
and related technology.

         From time to time, we have also entered into development agreements
with 3Com, Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, Nortel Networks, Sony and others. We
have worked closely with these customers to co-develop products for these
customers.

         A small number of customers have historically accounted for a
substantial portion of our revenue. Sales to General Instrument (including sales
to its manufacturing subcontractors) represented approximately 27.5% of our
revenue in 1999 and approximately 35.5% of our revenue in 1998. Sales to 3Com
(including sales to its manufacturing subcontractors) represented approximately
18.1% of our revenue in 1999 and approximately 26.8% of our revenue in 1998.
Sales to Cisco (including sales to its manufacturing subcontractors) represented
approximately 10.6% of our revenue in 1999. Sales to our five largest customers
represented approximately 67.0% of our revenue in 1999 and approximately 74.2%
of our revenue in 1998. General Instrument was acquired by Motorola, Inc. in
January 2000. The loss of any key customer could materially and adversely affect
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

PRODUCTS

         Our six primary product lines encompass:

         o  high-speed communications and MPEG video/audio/graphics devices for
            the digital cable television set-top box market;

         o  high-speed data transmission and media access control devices for
            the cable modem market;

         o  10/100/1000Base-T Ethernet transceivers, integrated repeater
            controllers, integrated switch controllers and proprietary
            application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") for the
            high-speed networking market;

         o  controllers and integrated transceivers and v.90 soft modem software
            for the home networking market;

         o  receivers and MPEG video/audio/graphics devices for the DBS and
            terrestrial digital broadcast markets; and

         o  broadband transceivers for the xDSL market.

         We also develop and sell reference platforms designed around our
integrated circuit products that represent application examples for
incorporation into our customers' equipment. By providing these reference
platforms, we can assist our customers in achieving easier and faster
transitions from initial prototype designs through final production releases.
These reference platforms enhance the customer's confidence that our products
will meet their market requirements and product introduction schedules.


                                       7

<PAGE>   11

         Digital Cable Set-Top Boxes

         We offer a suite of silicon solutions for digital cable set-top boxes
and cable headends which encompass the high-speed transmission, reception and
decompression of digital audio and video multimedia signals. These products are
also applicable to the terrestrial digital broadcast markets. Our QAMLink(R)
transmission products integrate the core functionality required of advanced
communications transceiver devices including modulators and demodulators for
quadrature amplitude modulation, commonly known as QAM, and quadrature phase
shift keying, commonly known as QPSK. QAM is a digital modulation technique that
allows very efficient transmission of data over media with limited available
bandwidth. QSPK is a digital modulation technique that is widely employed in DBS
transmission systems. Our QAMLink transmission products also integrate adaptive
equalization, which corrects for distortion in the transmission media, forward
error correction, which corrects for errors that occur in the transmitted data,
and high-speed analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog conversion. We have
designed these products to meet both international and North American
communications standards for cable networks. Several of these products also
incorporate additional set-top box functionality such as cable network protocol
processing for entitlement and tiered programming access and input/output device
control.

         In the fourth quarter of 1999, we introduced our first single-chip High
Definition (HD) MPEG-2 video and graphics multimedia device. This device
incorporates all of the processing capabilities necessary to decode and display
a MPEG-2 digital television data stream and subsequently reconstruct an analog
HD studio quality television signal that can be displayed on a standard or HD
television receiver. This chip integrates MPEG-2 video decompression, Dolby AC3
audio compression, MPEG-2 transport processing, studio quality 2D and 3D
graphics, analog video reconstruction and other necessary video-graphics related
functions required to deliver video and audio to a television. We believe our
combination of transmission and MPEG silicon solutions, licensed MIPS
microprocessor cores and graphics technology will provide all of the significant
silicon functionality of most existing digital cable set-top boxes with the
exceptions of the security functions and memory.

         Our principal products for digital cable set-top boxes include the
BCM3116 (downstream QAM receiver), BCM3120 (universal set-top box transceiver),
BCM3125 (universal set-top box transceiver), BCM3300 (integrated DOCSIS cable
modem chip) and the BCM7010 (MPEG system on a chip).

         Cable Modems

         We have leveraged our core transmission technologies that were
developed for the cable set-top box market and adapted them to the development
of a family of products that enable digital data to be delivered over an HFC
cable network at downstream speeds of up to 56 Mbps and upstream speeds of up to
10 Mbps. These products incorporate modulation, adaptive equalization and error
correction technologies similar to those of our digital set-top box products and
thereby achieve robust and reliable transmission, especially in the noisy and
interference-prone upstream direction. The cable modem product family includes
solutions for both the cable headend and subscriber. We have also expanded our
core technology offerings in this area to include a DOCSIS Media Access
Controller, commonly known as a MAC, which controls the upstream and downstream
data flow over the cable network as well as a RISC central processing unit
(CPU), Universal Serial Bus (USB) interface, and Ethernet and IP security
functions. In December 1999 we introduced the BCM3350 single-chip cable modem,
which integrates all the essential functions of a DOCSIS cable modem into a
single chip, including the DOCSIS-based upstream and downstream physical layers,
DOCSIS MAC, 10/100BaseT Ethernet physical layer and Ethernet MAC, a USB
transceiver, a RISC CPU and IP security functions. This device allows cable
modems to provide data telephony services over the cable network using the
Internet Protocol. With our comprehensive offering of silicon solutions for both
the cable modem and cable headend, designed to the DOCSIS specification, we are
capable of supplying our customers with complete end-to-end silicon solutions
for their DOCSIS products.

         Our principal products for cable modems include the BCM3037 (universal
QPSK/QAM burst modulator), BCM3116 (downstream QAM receiver), BCM3118
(downstream QAM receiver), BCM3137 (headend QPSK/QAM burst receiver), BCM3220
(DOCSIS media access controller) and the BCM3300 (single chip DOCSIS cable
modem)


                                       8
<PAGE>   12

         High-Speed Networking

         Our networking products provide the core functionality required for
building Ethernet NICs, repeater/hubs and switches which support the Ethernet,
Fast Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet standards. Our Digi-(PHI)(TM) transceivers
are the basic elements required to implement an Ethernet connection. The
Digi-(PHI) architecture incorporates our patent-pending DSP processing
algorithms combined with high-speed analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog
converters to create a highly-robust and cost-effective solution. In addition to
the DSP-based architecture, the family of Digi-(PHI) transceiver products
feature low power and low voltage (2.5 Volts) operation, making them suitable
for high port density switches and hubs, as well as PCI2.2 compliant mobile and
desktop adapter cards and computer motherboards. We also offer a variety of
integrated repeater and switch controller devices, to provide a broad suite of
Fast Ethernet products to meet the demands of the adapter card, repeater/hub,
switch, network peripheral and router markets. In addition, we develop and
produce proprietary ASICs combining our customer's intellectual property with
our advanced Digi-(PHI) transceiver and other communication cores.

         Our principal high-speed networking products include the BCM5208 (quad
10/100Base-T transceiver), BCM5308 (nine port 10/100Base-T switch), BCM 5903
(single chip 10/100Base-T transceiver with integrated MAC) and BCM5904 (single
chip 10/100Base-T transceiver with integrated MAC ASIC).

         Home Networking

         Our home networking products are built around the iLine10(TM) chipset
family, which networks data and multi-media applications at rates of 10 Mbps
over the ordinary phone lines found in any home. iLine10 products use QAM
modulation to send Ethernet data frames over ordinary phone wires in the home,
without disturbing the ability to use the same phone wires for both regular
phone service and ADSL broadband Internet access simultaneously. iLine10 enabled
products include adapter cards and dongles for personal computers, add-in
modules for home broadband gateways, and specialized chipsets and drivers for
Internet appliances. Our principal home networking products include the BCM4100
(integrated iLine10 analog front-end transceiver) and the BCM4210
(fully-integrated iLine10 MAC/PHY device).

         Additionally our AltoCom subsidiary licenses v.90 soft modem
technology. The AltoCom software is very efficient in its modulation algorithms,
resulting in lower CPU utilization and lower power consumption compared to
competitive alternatives. As a result, over 20 companies have licensed the
AltoCom software for use in Internet appliances, xDSL gateways and other
devices.

         DBS and Terrestrial Digital Broadcast

         Our products for the DBS market are designed to meet the needs of
satellite set-top box providers and incorporate the functionality necessary to
receive, demodulate and decode a broadband QPSK signal, including advanced
forward error correction. These products can be programmed to accommodate
satellite standards such as DSS, the DIRECTV standard; DVB, the international
standard; and Primestar. These products can operate at any data rate from 2 to
90 Mbps. Our MPEG system on a chip, the BCM7010, employs the MPEG-2 standard,
which enables it to be used in either digital cable set-top boxes or DBS set-top
boxes. Our principal DBS and terrestrial digital broadcast product is the
BCM4200 (QSPK receiver for DSS and DVB digital satellite reception).

         xDSL

         Our product for DSL transmission incorporates the functionality to
enable data to be transmitted and received at high speed over the existing
copper twisted pair wiring in the telephone local loops. Our BCM6010 currently
offers the industry's only single-chip mixed-signal silicon solution that can be
configured to operate at data rates spanning ISDN (128 kbps) to VDSL (52 Mbps),
thereby accommodating the needs of a wide variety of xDSL market segments in a
single chip. This solution offers network operators the ability to initially
install high-speed ADSL data services on the existing local loop plant and
subsequently offer higher data rates for video-related services on an upgraded
plant. We have leveraged our mixed-signal and DSP processing design expertise
developed for cable television and wireless products to develop the BCM6010
(scalable xDSL QAM transceiver for twisted-pair applications).


                                       9


<PAGE>   13

         Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop new silicon
solutions for existing and new markets, introduce such products in a timely and
cost-effective manner, and achieve design wins. We may not be able to develop or
introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner or in sufficient
quantities to meet customer demand. In addition, it is possible that new
products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance.

CORE TECHNOLOGIES

         We believe that one of our key competitive advantages is our broad base
of core technologies encompassing the complete design space from systems to
silicon. We have developed and continue to build on four primary technology
foundations:

         o  proprietary communications systems algorithms and protocols;

         o  advanced DSP hardware architectures;

         o  silicon compiler design methodologies and advanced cell library
            development for both standard cell and full-custom integrated
            circuit design; and

         o  high performance analog and mixed-signal circuit design using
            industry standard CMOS processes.

         Communications Algorithms and Protocols

         We have been an innovator in developing advanced modulation and coding
systems and integrating them onto a single chip. These include QAM, VSB and QPSK
receivers incorporating digital demodulation, adaptive equalization and
sophisticated forward error correction techniques. These receivers incorporate
novel signal processing algorithms to facilitate robust performance in severely
distorted channels. These core transmission algorithms are broadly applicable to
our products in the areas of satellite, terrestrial wireless, digital cable
set-top box, cable modem, xDSL and home networking. We introduced the industry's
first DOCSIS physical layer and media access control chips for cable modems, the
industry's first 52 Mbps VDSL transceiver, as well as the industry's first 10
Mbps home phoneline networking solution. We have also developed the world's
first all-DSP based transceiver chips for Fast Ethernet LAN applications. This
Digi-(PHI) transceiver core has been used in a number of our single, quad, hex
and octal channel transceiver products for Ethernet (10/100Base-TX)
applications. Our DSP algorithmic expertise has also been extended and applied
to the development of the world's first Gigabit copper twisted pair transceiver.
In addition to data transmission algorithms, we have developed significant
expertise in networking protocols which we have applied to the development of
MAC devices for cable modems and interactive set-top box applications as well as
Ethernet MAC controllers and switching and packet filtering techniques for Fast
Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet Internet Protocol (IP) networks. We have also
developed innovative techniques for digital video processing in the areas of
standard definition and high definition MPEG decompression, digital audio
decoding, advanced 2D and 3D graphics for set-top boxes, and NTSC digital video
encoders and decoders. Next generation IP networks have very demanding Quality
of Service (QoS) requirements for supporting low latency transport of voice
traffic, and we have incorporated our substantial algorithm, protocol and
software expertise for voice processing into a wide variety of Voice over IP
(VoIP) products.

         Digital Signal Processing Hardware Architectures

         We have developed cost-effective, single-chip broadband transceivers by
mapping complex communications algorithms into low-complexity DSP hardware
architectures. We are a technology leader in the area of low-complexity,
high-performance silicon embedded algorithms. We have individually implemented
these communications algorithms in full-custom logic rather than the
conventional approach of running all of the algorithms in firmware on a single
general purpose programmable DSP architecture. This design approach is combined
with silicon compiler-based design methodologies which generate the custom logic
functions. This results in chips that are less complex and less expensive to
manufacture than conventional implementations. One particular area where we have
developed leading DSP technology is in digital adaptive equalization. Equalizers
are key components in all of our transceiver products. We believe that the speed
and density of our equalizers help to distinguish our products in the
marketplace. Our single-chip, mixed-signal adaptive DSP transceiver for Gigabit
Ethernet achieves an unprecedented throughput of over 250 billion operations per
second.


                                       10


<PAGE>   14

         Silicon Compiler Design Methodologies

         We have developed proprietary silicon compiler technologies that enable
designers to implement chips using a high level of abstraction yet produce
area-efficient integrated circuit layouts and achieve short design cycles. The
cells that are synthesized from this process can be individually optimized for
functionality, performance, topology, electrical characteristics and
manufacturing process portability. We have designed compilers for standard
cells, arithmetic processing, memories and analog building blocks. In addition,
we have created compilers to manage the implementation of higher level functions
such as digital filters, adaptive equalizers, modulators, demodulators and
numerically controlled oscillators/direct digital frequency synthesizers. We
believe that these silicon compiler capabilities accelerate time-to-market by
improving designer productivity and by providing functional blocks that can be
reused in multiple products. In addition, these compiler techniques
significantly reduce errors, thereby frequently resulting in first pass silicon
success. We have also developed, and continue to improve and expand, our own
proprietary set of circuit and layout libraries for both standard cell and
full-custom integrated circuits.

         Full-Custom Analog and Mixed-Signal Circuit Design

         We have developed significant analog and mixed-signal circuit
expertise. We have achieved a level of circuit performance in standard CMOS
process technologies that is normally associated with more expensive special
purpose silicon fabrication technologies. All of our high-performance analog
building blocks are implemented in the same low-cost single poly CMOS
technologies as the digital semiconductor circuitry. In addition to achieving
high performance, our analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog converters are
among the lowest die area devices in the industry, which makes them well suited
for integration into high volume mixed-signal products. Virtually all of our
transmission products incorporate a mixed-signal analog front-end. In addition
to our baseband mixed-signal circuit expertise, we have developed a substantial
base of expertise in CMOS RF design. We have introduced the world's first
all-CMOS RF tuner for cable TV receivers. This device incorporates a wide
variety of sophisticated RF building blocks, including low noise amplifiers,
highly linear amplifiers and mixers, wideband phase-locked loop frequency
synthesizers, low phase noise oscillators and on-chip RF filters.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

         We have assembled a core team of experienced engineers and
technologists, many of whom are leaders in their particular field or discipline.
As of March 1, 2000 approximately two-thirds of our 744 research and development
employees had advanced degrees. Our work force includes approximately 100
employees with Ph.D.s. These employees are involved in advancing our core
technologies, as well as applying these core technologies to our product
development activities in the areas of broadband communications in our target
markets. The transmission solutions for each of these markets benefit from the
same underlying core technologies, which enables us to leverage our ability to
address various broadband communications markets with a relatively focused
investment in research and development.

         We believe that the achievement of higher levels of integration and the
introduction of new products in our target markets is essential to our growth.
As a result, we plan to continue to increase research and development staffing
levels in 2000. We have established additional design centers in Tempe, Arizona,
San Diego, Sunnyvale and San Jose, California, Atlanta, Georgia, Bunnik, the
Netherlands, and Singapore. As a result of our 1999 acquisitions of Armedia,
Inc. and HotHaus Technologies Inc., we also undertake design and development
activities in India and software design and development in Canada, respectively.
We anticipate establishing additional design centers in the United States and
other countries in the future.

MANUFACTURING

         Wafer Fabrication

         We manufacture our products using standard CMOS process techniques. The
standard nature of these processes permits us to engage independent silicon
foundries to fabricate our integrated circuits. By subcontracting our
manufacturing requirements, we are able to focus our resources on design and
test applications where we believe we have greater competitive advantages. This
strategy also eliminates the high cost of owning and operating a semiconductor
wafer fabrication facility.


                                       11


<PAGE>   15

         Our Operations and Quality Engineering Group closely manages the
interface between manufacturing and design engineering. While our design
methodology typically creates smaller than average die for a given function, it
also generates full-custom integrated circuit designs. As a result, we are
responsible for the complete functional and parametric performance testing of
our devices, including quality. We employ a fully staffed operations and quality
organization similar to a vertically integrated semiconductor manufacturer. We
also arrange with our foundries to have online work-in-progress control, making
the manufacturing subcontracting process transparent to our customers.

         Our key silicon foundries are Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Corporation in Taiwan and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing in Singapore.
While we primarily use two independent foundries, few of our components are
manufactured at both foundries at any given time. Any inability of one of our
foundries to provide the necessary capacity or output could result in
significant production delays and could materially and adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations. While we currently
believe we have adequate capacity to support our current sales levels, we
continue to work with our existing foundries to obtain more production capacity
and we intend to qualify new foundries to provide additional production
capacity. It is possible that adequate foundry capacity may not be available on
acceptable terms, if at all. In the event a foundry experiences financial
difficulties, or if a foundry suffers any damage or destruction to its
facilities, or in the event of any other disruption of foundry capacity, we may
not be able to qualify alternative manufacturing sources for existing or new
products in a timely manner.

         Our products are currently fabricated with .5 micron, triple layer
metal, .35 micron, quad layer metal, and .22 micron, five layer metal, feature
sizes. We continuously evaluate the benefits, on a product by product basis, of
migrating to a smaller geometry process technology in order to reduce costs. Our
experience to date with the migration of products to smaller geometry processes
has been favorable, but we could experience difficulties in future process
migration. Other companies in our industry have experienced difficulty
transitioning to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered
reduced yields or delays in product deliveries. We believe that the transition
of our products to smaller geometries will be important for us to remain
competitive. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could
be materially and adversely affected if any such transition is substantially
delayed or inefficiently implemented.

         Assembly and Test

         One of our independent foundries or independent wafer probe test
subcontractors conducts our wafer probe testing. Following completion of the
wafer probe tests, the die are assembled into packages and the finished products
are tested by one of our three key subcontractors: ASAT Ltd. in Hong Kong, ST
Assembly Test Services in Singapore and Amkor Technology in the Philippines and
South Korea. While we have not experienced any material disruption in supply
from assembly subcontractors to date, we could experience assembly problems in
the future. The availability of assembly and testing services from these
subcontractors could be materially and adversely affected in the event a
subcontractor experiences financial difficulties, if a subcontractor suffers any
damage or destruction to its respective facilities, or in the event of any other
disruption of assembly and testing capacity.

         Quality Assurance

         The broadband communications industry demands high-quality and
reliability of the semiconductors incorporated into their equipment. We focus on
product reliability from the initial stage of the design cycle through each
specific design process, including layout and production test design. In
addition, we subject our designs to in-depth circuit simulation at temperature,
voltage and processing extremes before initiating the manufacturing process.

         We prequalify each assembly and foundry subcontractor. This
prequalification process consists of a series of industry standard environmental
product stress tests, as well as an audit and analysis of the subcontractor's
quality system and manufacturing capability. We also participate in quality and
reliability monitoring through each stage of the production cycle by reviewing
electrical and parametric data from our wafer foundry and assembly
subcontractors. We closely monitor wafer foundry production to ensure consistent
overall quality, reliability and yield levels. In cases where we purchase wafers
on a fixed cost basis, any improvement in yields can reduce our cost per chip.


                                       12


<PAGE>   16


         As part of our total quality program, we have applied for and received
ISO 9000 certification, a comprehensive International Standards Organization
specified quality system. All of our principal independent foundries and package
assembly facilities are also ISO 9000 certified.

         Product Distribution

         Historically we had distributed products to our customer through an
operations and distribution center located in Irvine, California. In 1999, we
established an international distribution center in Singapore. This new facility
puts us closer to our suppliers and certain key customers and improves our
ability to meet our customers' needs. While our Irvine facility will continue to
ship product to U.S. destinations, the transition of our international customers
to the Singapore facility was essentially completed by the end of 1999.

SALES AND MARKETING

         Our sales and marketing strategy is to achieve design wins with
technology leaders in each of the our targeted broadband communications markets
by, among other things, providing superior field application and engineering
support. We market and sell our products in the United States through a direct
sales force, which has largely been established within the last three years. Our
direct sales force is based out of offices located in Irvine and San Jose,
California, Houston and Plano, Texas, Canton and Needham, Massachusetts,
Chicago, Illinois, Scarborough, Maine and Atlanta, Georgia.

         We dedicate sales managers to principal customers to promote close
cooperation and communication. We also provide our customers with reference
platform designs, which enable our customers to achieve easier and faster
transitions from the initial prototype designs through final production
releases. We believe these reference platform designs also significantly enhance
our customer's confidence that our products will meet their market requirements
and product introduction schedules.

         We also market and sell our products internationally through a direct
sales force based out of regional sales offices located in Japan, The
Netherlands, Singapore, France and United Kingdom, as well as through a network
of independent distributors and representatives in Germany, Israel, Japan, Korea
and Taiwan. We select these independent entities based on their ability to
provide effective field sales, marketing communications and technical support to
our customers. All international sales to date have been denominated in U.S.
dollars.

BACKLOG

         Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for
delivery of products. Due to industry practice which allows customers to cancel
or change orders with limited advance notice prior to shipment, we believe that
backlog is not a reliable indicator of future revenue levels.

COMPETITION

         The broadband communications markets and semiconductor industries are
intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change,
evolving standards, short product life cycles and price erosion. We believe that
the principal factors of competition for integrated circuit providers to these
industries include:

         o  product capabilities;

         o  level of integration;

         o  reliability;

         o  price;

         o  time-to-market;

         o  standards compliance;

         o  system cost;

         o  intellectual property;

         o  customer support; and

         o  reputation.

         We believe that we compete favorably with respect to each of these
factors.


                                       13


<PAGE>   17
         We compete with a number of major domestic and international suppliers
of equipment in our target broadband communications markets, which competition
has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for
our products. In all of our target markets, we also may face competition from
newly established competitors and suppliers of products based on new or emerging
technologies. We also expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets
in which we compete.

         Many of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and
have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name
recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales
and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than
we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new
or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater
resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Current and potential
competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic
relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers,
resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new
competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire
significant market share. In addition, competitors may develop technologies in
the future that more effectively address the transmission of digital information
through existing analog infrastructures at a lower cost. Increased competition
could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market
share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition
and results of operations.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

         Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our
ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent,
copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements
and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. These
measures may not provide meaningful protection for our intellectual property. We
have received 11 United States patents and have filed over 250 United States
patent applications. We may not receive any additional patents as a result of
these applications or future applications. Even if additional patents are
issued, any claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our
technology. In addition, any existing or future patents could be challenged,
invalidated or circumvented, and any right granted under such patents may not
provide us with meaningful protection. The failure of any patents to adequately
protect our technology would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar
products. In connection with our participation in the development of various
industry standards, we may be required to license certain of our patents to
other parties, including competitors, that develop products based upon the
adopted industry standards. We also generally enter into confidentiality
agreements with our employees and strategic partners, and typically control
access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary
information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to
copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, services or technology without
authorization, to develop similar technology independently or to design around
our patents. In addition, effective copyright, trademark and trade secret
protection may not be available or may be limited in certain foreign countries.
We have also entered into agreements with certain of our customers and granted
these customers the right to use our proprietary technology in the event we
default in our contractual obligations, including product supply obligations,
and fail to cure the default within a specified period of time. Moreover, we
often incorporate the intellectual property of our strategic customers into our
designs, and we have certain obligations with respect to the non-use and
non-disclosure of their intellectual property. It is possible that the steps
taken by us to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual
property or our customers' intellectual property may not be successful.
Moreover, we may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce our
intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our
trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of
others, including our customers. Such litigation could result in substantial
costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

         Companies in the semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and
pursue their intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received,
and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have


                                       14


<PAGE>   18
 infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties' proprietary rights.
In March 2000 Intel Corporation and its subsidiary Level One Communications Inc.
filed a lawsuit against us alleging misappropriation of trade secrets, unfair
competition and tortious interference with existing contractual relations in
connection with our recent hiring of three former Intel employees. In 1999 we
settled litigation with Stanford Telecommunications, Inc. that related to the
alleged infringement of one of Stanford's patents by several of our cable modem
products. In 1999 we prevailed in litigation with Sarnoff Corporation and
NxtWave Communications, Inc., formerly Sarnoff Digital Communications, Inc.,
which alleged that we misappropriated and misused certain of their trade secrets
in connection with our hiring of five former Sarnoff employees. Our subsidiary,
AltoCom, is the defendant in patent litigation brought by Motorola, Inc.
relating to software modem technology. Although we are defending the pending
litigation vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or
future lawsuits. In addition, we may be sued in the future by other parties who
claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their
trade secrets, or who may seek to invalidate one of our patents. Any of these
claims may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court
could issue an injunction against us that would require us to withdraw or recall
certain products from the market or redesign certain products offered for sale
or under development. In addition, we may be liable for damages for past
infringement and royalties for future use of the technology. We may also have to
indemnify certain customers and strategic partners under our agreements with
such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that we have infringed
upon, misappropriated or misused another party's proprietary rights. Even if
claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could
result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel
resources to defend. In that event, our business, financial condition and
results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. If any
claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under
a third party's intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to
obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.

EMPLOYEES

         As of March 1, 2000 we had 1,120 full-time employees and 27 contract
and temporary employees, including 744 employees engaged in research and
development, 134 engaged in sales and marketing, 115 engaged in manufacturing
operations and 154 engaged in finance, legal and general administration
activities. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining
agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe our
employee relations are good.
