ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

OUR COMPANY

     Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics," "the
Company," "us," "we," or "our") is the leading supplier of high-performance
polishing slurries used in the manufacture of the most advanced integrated
circuit ("IC") devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called
chemical mechanical planarization ("CMP"). CMP is a polishing process used by IC
device manufacturers to planarize or flatten many of the multiple layers of
material that are built upon silicon wafers, and is a necessary step in the
production of advanced ICs. Planarization is a polishing process that uses CMP
slurries and pads to level, smooth and remove excess material from the surfaces
of these layers. CMP slurries are liquid formulations that facilitate and
enhance this polishing process and generally contain engineered abrasives and
proprietary chemicals. CMP pads are typically flat engineered "disks" made of
polymeric materials that help to distribute and transport the slurry to the
surface of the wafer and distribute it across the wafer.

     CMP enables IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more
complex IC devices with fewer defects. We believe CMP will become increasingly
important in the future as manufacturers continue to shrink the size of these
devices and to improve their performance. Our CMP products are used for a number
of applications, such as polishing insulating layers, the tungsten plugs that go
through the insulating layers and connect the multiple wiring layers of IC
devices, and copper wiring. In addition, we have developed and sell CMP slurries
for polishing certain components in hard disk drives, specifically rigid disk
substrates and magnetic heads, and we believe we are one of the leading
suppliers in this area. We are continuing to develop slurries for new
applications such as direct shallow trench isolation, used to electrically
isolate adjoining transistors. In addition, we operate as a value-added reseller
of polishing pads and are developing our own polishing pads for use in the CMP
process.

     Prior to our initial public offering in April 2000, we operated as a
division of Cabot Corporation ("Cabot Corporation"), a global chemical
manufacturing company based in Boston, Massachusetts. Following our initial
public offering, Cabot Corporation owned approximately 80.5 percent of Cabot
Microelectronics. In September 2000, Cabot Corporation effected the spin-off of
Cabot Microelectronics by distributing 0.280473721 shares of our common stock as
a dividend on each outstanding share of Cabot Corporation common stock
outstanding on September 13, 2000, or an aggregate of 18,989,744 shares of our
common stock.

  IC DEVICE MANUFACTURING

     Advanced IC devices are composed of millions of transistors and other
electronic components connected by miles of wiring. The wiring, today composed
primarily of aluminum and tungsten but also increasingly consisting of copper in
advanced applications, carries electric signals through the multiple layers of
the IC device. Insulating material is used throughout the IC device to isolate
the electronic components and the wiring, thereby preventing short circuiting
and improving the efficiency of the travel of the electric signal within the
device. To enhance performance, IC device manufacturers have progressively
increased the number, or density, of transistors and other electronic components
in each IC device. As a result, the number of wires and the number of layers
have also increased. We expect this trend towards increased complexity to
continue.

     The multi-step manufacturing process for IC devices typically begins with a
circular wafer of pure silicon. A large number of identical IC devices, or dies,
are manufactured on each wafer at the same time, and at the end of the process,
the wafer is cut into the individual dies. The dies are then packaged to form
individual chips. The first step in the manufacturing process builds transistors
and other electronic components on the silicon wafer. These are then isolated
from each other to prevent electrical signals from bridging from one transistor
to another by using a technique called shallow trench isolation ("STI"). Once
the transistors and other electronic components are in place on the silicon
wafer, they are usually covered with a layer of insulating material, most often
silicon dioxide. These components are then wired together in a particular
sequence to produce a functional IC device with particular characteristics.

                                        2
<PAGE>

     CMP is used to planarize the insulating layers of an IC device and prepare
them for a process known as metallization. During metallization, wiring is added
to the surface of the insulating layer through a series of steps involving the
following: deposition of a metal onto the surface of the layer; projection of an
image of the desired wiring pattern on the layer using a process known as
photolithography; and removal of the excess deposited metal from the surface of
the insulating layer, which leaves behind the desired wiring pattern. If the IC
device uses aluminum wiring, the excess metal is removed using a process called
etching. If the IC device is more advanced and uses copper wiring, the excess
metal is removed by a CMP process step.

     When the wiring is finished, another layer of insulating material is added
and may be planarized using CMP. This process of alternating insulating and
wiring layers is repeated until the desired wiring within the IC device is
completed. The electronic components and wiring layers are connected by
conductive plugs that are formed by making holes in the insulating layers and
filling those holes with metal, usually tungsten or copper. After these holes
have been filled with metal, either an etching process or CMP is used to remove
all the excess metal above the surface of the insulating layer so that the top
of the plug is level with the surface of the insulating layer before the next
wiring layer is built.

     The number of transistors on a chip has increased exponentially since the
inception of the IC industry. This phenomenon, called "Moore's law", states that
the number of transistors on an integrated circuit should double every 12-18
months. This has driven relentless improvement in the speed and a reduction in
the cost of computing power available today. As a result of this evolution, the
number of wires and the number of wiring layers in an IC device have also
increased. To accommodate and standardize these increases, the semiconductor
industry follows generally accepted design rules that describe current and
projected size and spacing of electronic components and wiring in IC devices.
The size and spacing in these design rules have been progressively decreasing to
accommodate the demand for increased circuit density and transistor
miniaturization. As the density increases, the amount of wiring needed to
connect the transistors and other electronic components to each other also
increases. As IC devices become smaller, this increase in wiring requires
tighter and more precise spacing of the wiring, and an increased number of
wiring layers in IC devices.

     Most IC devices today are manufactured on 200 mm silicon wafers. However, a
significant development for the IC industry is the onset of IC device
manufacturing using 300 mm wafers. The industry leaders are driving this change
from 200 mm to 300 mm wafers to reduce the cost of making each chip. In general,
300 mm wafer manufacturing began in 2003 and this trend is expected to
accelerate in the future. The larger 300 mm wafers contain more IC devices and
typically use less CMP slurry per device.

     The International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors ("ITRS") is a set
of guidelines sponsored by the Semiconductor Industry Association and others
that provides design guidance and targets for the semiconductor industry. The
2002 edition helps quantify the miniaturization and complexity trends expected
in future IC devices. For example, today's leading edge logic microprocessors
are operating at the 130 nanometer node and utilize a maximum of eight levels of
metal interconnect wiring. The ITRS calls for those microprocessors to operate
at the 90 nanometer node and a maximum of nine levels of metal wiring starting
in 2004. Similarly, leading edge DRAM memory chips are projected to be at four
levels of metal wiring in 2004. CMP is used to polish the insulating layers,
tungsten plugs, and copper wiring that make up the interconnects in IC devices.
CMP is also utilized in the formation of the transistors in the processes that
precede the formation of interconnects. We believe that the use of CMP in the
manufacture of IC devices will continue to increase as the feature size of these
devices decreases, the number of CMP applications increases, and the number of
layers in the device increases. We expect that increased demand for CMP will
have a greater impact on CMP slurry and pad usage than efficiencies that may be
obtained by semiconductor manufacturers in their transition from 200 mm to 300
mm wafers.

  CHEMICAL MECHANICAL PLANARIZATION

     The CMP process utilizes both chemical reactions and mechanical abrasion to
planarize the insulating and conductive layers of an IC device that are built
upon a silicon wafer. During the IC device manufacturing process the wafer is
typically held on a rotating carrier, which is spun at high speed and pressed
against a rotating polishing table. The portion of the table that comes in
contact with the wafer is covered by a textured

                                        3
<PAGE>

polishing pad. A CMP slurry is continuously applied to the polishing pad to
facilitate and enhance the polishing process. CMP slurries are liquid solutions
generally composed of high-purity deionized water, proprietary chemical
additives and engineered abrasives that chemically and mechanically interact
with the surface material of the IC device at an atomic level. CMP pads are
engineered polymeric materials designed to transfer the slurry to and distribute
it evenly across the wafer.

  BENEFITS OF CMP

     CMP provides IC device manufacturers with a number of advantages. CMP
enables IC device manufacturers to produce smaller IC devices with greater
density, both of which improve the performance and capabilities of the device.
As IC devices shrink and become denser, they require smaller feature sizes and
tighter spacing among the device wiring. If the surface is not level, the
smaller feature size and tighter spacing make it more difficult for the
photolithography equipment to focus accurately and create the desired wiring
pattern. In addition, because today's smaller, denser IC devices have more
layers than previous devices, any unevenness of a layer at or near the bottom of
an IC device will be magnified in the additional layers that are added to the
device. Defects caused by problems in the photolithography process or unevenness
in the layers can lead to short circuits, reduced performance and at worst,
failure of the IC device. By using CMP, IC device manufacturers can eliminate or
minimize these problems.

     By enabling IC device manufacturers to make smaller IC devices, CMP allows
them to increase the number of IC devices that fit on a wafer. This in turn
increases their throughput, or the number of IC devices they can manufacture in
a given time period. CMP also helps reduce the number of defective or
substandard IC devices produced, which increases the device yield. Improvements
in throughput and yield reduce an IC device manufacturer's unit production
costs. Manufacturers can achieve further improvements in throughput and yield as
new improvements to the CMP process help to reduce defect rates and decrease the
amount of time required for the polishing process.

  CMP SLURRIES AND PADS

     The characteristics that are important for an effective CMP process
include:

     - high polishing rates, which increase productivity and throughput;

     - high selectivity, which is the ability to enhance the polishing of
       specific materials while at the same time inhibiting the polishing of
       other materials;

     - uniform planarity, which minimizes unevenness as different layers are
       built on the wafer;

     - uniformity of polishing, which means that different surface materials can
       be polished to the same degree at the same time across the wafer, leading
       to uniformity of all dies on the wafer; and

     - low defectivity, which means that the devices have fewer imperfections
       and therefore produce higher yield.

     These attributes may be achieved through technical optimization of both the
slurry and the pad in conjunction with an appropriately designed CMP process.
These qualities affect and enhance the performance of IC devices, and most also
have the ability to reduce the cost of ownership of the CMP process for IC
device manufacturers. Cost of ownership is a calculation by which IC device
manufacturers evaluate the benefits and costs of each production step by
analyzing the impact of that step on throughput and yield, compared with the
costs of the production inputs of that step.

     Prior to introducing a new or different CMP slurry or pad into its
manufacturing process, an IC device manufacturer generally requires the product
to be qualified in its plant through a series of tests and evaluations. These
qualifications are intended to ensure that the product will function properly in
the manufacturing process, as well as to optimize its application. These tests
may require changes to the CMP process, the CMP slurry and/or the CMP polishing
pad. While this qualification process varies depending on numerous factors, it
is not unusual for it to be very costly and to take six months or more to
complete. IC

                                        4
<PAGE>

device manufacturers usually take the cost, time delay and impact on production
into account when they consider implementing or switching to a new CMP slurry or
pad.

INDUSTRY TRENDS

     The semiconductor industry has experienced rapid growth over the past three
decades, but it has also been highly cyclical and prone to downturns on a
regular two to three year basis. Over the past few years, companies in this
industry have been challenged by one of the most significant downturns in its
history, which appeared to be primarily driven by three factors:

     - overall economic factors, including an end to the late 1990's technology
       boom that had stimulated large demand for IC devices;

     - a build up of excess IC device inventory throughout the supply chain, and

     - oversupply of IC devices caused by the building of multiple manufacturing
       fabs in the late 90's and early 2000.

     As we begin our fiscal year 2004, we see some encouraging signs for
recovery in the semiconductor industry. Overall semiconductor sales appear to be
on an upward trend, with growth at the leading technology nodes even more
pronounced.

     We expect the CMP consumable market to grow in the future, driven in large
part by the significant growth and technological advances the semiconductor
industry has experienced over the past decade. IC devices are critical
components in an increasingly wide variety of products and applications,
including computers, data processing, communications, the internet, automobiles
and consumer and industrial electronics.

     This growth, along with increasing demand for smaller, higher performance
and more complex IC devices, pressure on IC device manufacturers to reduce their
costs, and the growth of new leading-edge technologies that require CMP, such as
copper interconnect and direct STI, has led to more widespread use of CMP and
consumption of CMP slurries and polishing pads. We anticipate the worldwide
market for these CMP consumables used by IC device manufacturers will grow in
the future as a result of expected increases in the number of IC devices
produced, the percentage of IC devices produced using CMP and the number of CMP
polishing steps used to produce each device. In addition, we believe that IC
manufacturers have continued to increase their use of CMP because the CMP
process represents an enabling technology and a means by which their yield can
be improved. We expect this anticipated growth will be mitigated somewhat by
efficiencies in CMP slurry and pad usage, as IC device manufacturers move from
200 mm to 300 mm wafers.

STRATEGY

     We intend to pursue the following strategies:

  REMAIN THE TECHNOLOGY LEADER IN CMP SLURRIES

     We believe that technology is vital to success in the CMP slurry market and
we plan to continue to devote significant resources to research and development.
We need to keep pace with the rapid technological advances in the semiconductor
industry so we can continue to deliver products that meet our customers'
evolving needs. We intend to: use our advanced research and development,
polishing and metrology capabilities to advance our understanding of our
customers' technology, processes, and performance requirements; improve the
chemical and mechanical qualities of our CMP products; and, demonstrate and
deliver advanced CMP solutions to the semiconductor industry.

  ACHIEVE OPERATIONS EXCELLENCE

     Our customers demand increasing performance of our products in terms of
product quality and consistency and expect a reliable supply source. We intend
to advance our strict quality controls on a continual basis in order to improve
the uniformity and consistency of performance of our CMP products. This year we

                                        5
<PAGE>

introduced our Operations Excellence initiative, which we believe over time will
enable our manufacturing operations to meet these increasing requirements and
improve the performance of our products in the manufacturing process of our
customers. In addition, the capacity and the location of our production
facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia allow us to provide a reliable
supply chain to meet our customers' CMP slurry requirements in a consistent,
timely manner.

  BUILD AND MAINTAIN CUSTOMER INTIMACY

     We believe that building intimacy and close relationships with our
customers is another cornerstone to long-term success in our business. We work
closely with our customers to identify and develop new and better CMP
consumables, to integrate our products into their manufacturing processes and to
assist them with supply, warehousing, packaging and inventory management. We
have devoted significant resources to enhancing our close customer relationships
and we are committed to continuing this effort. We increased our focus this year
on building our customer support organization as we transitioned from a
distributor to direct sales in Europe and Southeast Asia, thereby more closely
aligning with our customers in each of these regions.

  EXPAND INTO NEW APPLICATIONS AND PRODUCTS

     We intend to leverage our CMP experience and technology to explore new
applications and products. We are increasing our sales of slurries for polishing
copper used in the wiring layers of some IC devices, which represents the
leading edge of IC technology. We are also increasing emphasis on CMP polishing
for magnetic heads and the coating on hard disks in the data storage arena and
are beginning our sales of slurries for direct STI. Additionally, we are using
our knowledge of CMP consumables to expand into CMP polishing pads so that we
can provide our customers with a broader range of solutions for use in the CMP
process.

  EXPAND GLOBAL PRESENCE

     We believe that having production facilities, personnel and technical
resources in strategic locations around the world is important to the success of
our business, particularly in light of increased IC device manufacturing in
Asia. Accordingly, we have established a global presence with production
facilities in the United States, Barry, Wales and Geino, Japan. We also have
assembled a team of business and account managers and technical support
personnel strategically located in the United States, Europe, Taiwan, Singapore,
Japan, China and South Korea. We intend to expand our production capacity,
technical and sales support in many of the locations around the world where IC
device production is concentrated.

  ATTRACT AND RETAIN WORLD-CLASS PERSONNEL

     We have assembled a highly skilled and dedicated workforce that includes a
wide range of scientists and applications specialists, many of whom have
significant experience in the semiconductor industry. We plan to continue to
attract, retain and motivate experienced personnel who are committed to
providing high-performance products and strong customer and applications
support.

PRODUCTS

  CMP SLURRIES FOR IC DEVICES

     We produce CMP slurries of various formulations for polishing a wide
variety of materials. In addition to our existing tungsten and oxide slurries,
we have developed new, improved generations of each of our slurries as well as
new slurries to keep pace with our customers' evolving needs. Our new
generations of tungsten and oxide slurries, which are currently the most common
use of CMP in IC device manufacturing, are designed to reduce both defectivity
in IC devices and the required polishing time.

     We also manufacture slurry products for polishing copper used in the wiring
layers of the most advanced IC devices and are working on next generation
slurries for these applications. These products include different slurries for
polishing the primary copper film, as well as the thin barrier metal layer used
in copper wiring. We are also developing a slurry for direct STI which should
eliminate a number of manufacturing steps for our

                                        6
<PAGE>

customers. We continue to work closely with our customers to develop advanced
slurries to meet their evolving technological needs.

  CMP SLURRIES FOR THE DATA STORAGE INDUSTRY

     We produce CMP slurries for polishing the magnetic heads and the coating on
disks in hard disk drives by leveraging our core slurry technology and
manufacturing capacity, as well as by hiring industry experts who understand the
needs of the data storage industry. We believe CMP significantly improves the
surface finish of these coatings, resulting in greater storage capacity of the
substrates, and also improves the production efficiency of manufacturers of hard
disk drives by helping them increase their throughput and yield. We have also
established a dedicated research and development team and an applications
support team who employ a process solution approach similar to that used for our
other slurry products. We have promising results in these areas, and believe
that they offer solid potential. Moreover, we believe that our slurry products
for the data storage industry offer improved performance compared with other
materials currently used in the industry.

  CMP POLISHING PADS

     CMP polishing pads are consumable materials used in the CMP process that
work in conjunction with CMP slurries to facilitate the polishing process. We
believe the CMP polishing pad market is currently led by one principal supplier,
Rohm and Haas (through its Rodel subsidiary). Through discussions with our
customers, as well as our own examination of the CMP polishing pad market, we
have determined that a demand exists for higher quality, more reliable and
consistent polishing pads. We have identified an opportunity to provide our
customers with technology and quality improvements through the ability to
provide our technically optimized CMP slurries and polishing pads to them. We
are currently operating as a value-added reseller of pads produced by a third
party. This approach is intended to expedite our entry into the market by
satisfying the needs of our customers' current applications for improved
performance and consistency. In addition, we recently entered into a technology
licensing and co-marketing agreement with a semiconductor equipment manufacturer
under which we plan to develop, manufacture and sell polishing pads utilizing
endpoint detection window technology licensed from the manufacturer for use on
the manufacturer's equipment. We are also developing multiple pad technologies
with the goal of providing a portfolio of pads that are optimized with our
slurries to meet customers' emerging needs and applications.

CUSTOMERS, SALES AND MARKETING

     Our marketing begins with development teams who work closely with our
customers, using our research and development facilities to design CMP products
tailored to their precise needs. Next, our applications teams work with
customers to integrate our products into their manufacturing processes. Finally,
our logistics and sales personnel work to provide reliable supply, warehousing,
packaging and inventory management to our customers. Through our interactive
approach, we are able to build close relationships with our customers in a
variety of areas.

     We also market our products through independent distributors in certain
regions of the world. This fiscal year we decreased our reliance on independent
distributors and in June 2003, began selling directly to customers in Europe,
Singapore and Malaysia. These customers previously had been serviced through
Metron, a third party distributor. We have retained Metron as our distributor in
Israel.

     In response to significant growth in the IC device manufacturing industry
in Asia, we have increased our focus in Asia over the last few years by
increasing the number of account managers and technical and customer support
personnel present in this region. In addition, we plan to establish cleanroom
capabilities within this region in 2004 that would provide customers with more
responsive applications and technical support than are currently possible by
relying on our infrastructure based primarily in the United States. By enhancing
this regional infrastructure, we are demonstrating our commitment to the Asian
marketplace.

     In fiscal year 2003, our five largest customers, of which two are
distributors, accounted for approximately 61% of our revenue, with Marketech (a
distributor we use in Taiwan and China), and Intel accounting for approximately
28% and 15% of our revenue, respectively. In fiscal year 2002, our five largest
customers, of

                                        7
<PAGE>

which two are distributors, accounted for approximately 63% of our revenue, with
Marketech and Intel accounting for approximately 24% and 16% of our revenue,
respectively.

CABOT CORPORATION AS OUR MAJOR SUPPLIER OF RAW MATERIALS

     The base ingredients for most of our CMP slurries are fumed metal oxides,
primarily fumed silica, which is an ultra-fine, high purity silica produced by a
flame process, and, to a lesser extent, fumed alumina. We currently purchase
fumed silica under a fumed metal oxide agreement with Cabot Corporation, which
became effective at the time of our initial public offering in April 2000 and
which expires in June 2005, but may be extended. We also purchase fumed alumina
under this agreement. In order to meet our growing needs for fumed alumina, in
December 2001 we entered into a fumed alumina supply agreement with Cabot
Corporation, and amended certain terms related to fumed alumina under the fumed
metal oxide agreement.

  FUMED METAL OXIDE AGREEMENT

     Under the fumed metal oxide supply agreement Cabot Corporation continues to
be our primary supplier, subject to certain terms and conditions, of certain
fumed metal oxides for our slurry products produced as of the date of our
initial public offering with respect to fumed silica. For products developed
since that time, we have the flexibility to purchase from Cabot Corporation or
other parties. Approximately 75% of the fumed metal oxides that we currently
purchase from Cabot Corporation are manufactured at its facility in Tuscola,
Illinois.

     This agreement provides for a fixed annual increase in the price of fumed
silica of approximately 2% of the initial price and additional increases if
Cabot Corporation's raw material costs increase. We are required to provide
Cabot Corporation with quarterly, six-month, annual and 18-month forecasts of
our expected fumed silica purchases and Cabot Corporation's obligation to
provide us with fumed silica to specified percentages in excess of those
forecasted volumes is limited.

     Under the agreement and the amendment entered into in December 2001, Cabot
Corporation also supplies us with fumed alumina from its Tuscola, Illinois
facility on terms generally similar to those described above. The price is fixed
and unchanged for a base level of production, and we agreed to pay a higher
incentive price for volumes above that level. The agreement prohibits Cabot
Corporation from selling fumed metal oxides to third parties for use in CMP
applications.

  FUMED ALUMINA SUPPLY AGREEMENT

     Under the fumed alumina supply agreement, Cabot Corporation expanded its
capacity for the manufacture of fumed alumina. The expansion is dedicated to our
fumed alumina requirements, subject to certain terms and conditions, and we have
a first right on all production and capacity from the expansion. The agreement
provides that the price Cabot Corporation charges us for fumed alumina is based
on all of its fixed and variable costs for producing the fumed alumina, plus its
capital costs for expanding its capacity, plus an agreed upon rate of return on
investment, plus incentive payments if Cabot Corporation produces more than a
certain amount of fumed alumina per year that meets our specifications. Under
this agreement, up to certain quantities and for products produced on the
effective date of the agreement, Cabot Corporation is the exclusive supplier of
fumed alumina for these products, subject to certain terms and conditions. For
amounts over these quantities, and for technologies since that time, we have the
flexibility to purchase from other parties. The agreement prohibits Cabot
Corporation from selling fumed alumina to third parties, or engaging itself in
its use in CMP applications. The agreement has an initial five year term and we
may renew the agreement for an additional five years to 2011.

     If Cabot Corporation fails to supply us with our requirements for any
reason, including if we require product specification changes that Cabot
Corporation cannot meet, we have the right to purchase products meeting those
specifications from other suppliers.

                                        8
<PAGE>

DISPERSION SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH DAVIES

     At the time of our initial public offering, Cabot Corporation assigned to
us a dispersion services agreement with Davies Imperial Coatings, Inc.
("Davies") pursuant to which Davies produces slurries for us. Under this
agreement, we provide raw materials to Davies and it performs dispersion
services for us. The price for these services is set at a negotiated price,
subject to increases. We have agreed to purchase minimum amounts of services for
each year of the agreement. If Davies fails to supply us with required
dispersion services, we have the right to provide these services for ourselves
or purchase them from third parties. Over time we have invested in equipment and
improvements for the Davies facility and we now own most of the dispersion
equipment at that facility. The agreement has an initial term that expires in
October 2004, and is renewable.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     We believe our leadership position depends in part on our ability to
develop CMP applications tailored to our customers' needs. In our product
development and dispersion technology laboratories, our skilled technical
personnel study different aspects of the CMP process and CMP products, such as
various studies of the chemical reactions on the surface of the wafer. Results
from these studies allow us to adjust the composition of our slurries to achieve
uniform polishing performance. Understanding the chemical processes on the
surface of the polished wafer allows us to compose slurries with specifically
tailored selectivity, that interact with one material and then slow or
essentially stop planarization as soon as this particular material has been
polished. We have also assembled dedicated development teams that work closely
with customers to identify their specific technology and manufacturing
challenges and to translate these challenges into viable CMP process solutions.
We have dedicated substantial resources to copper technology in research &
development (R&D) and manufacturing to support our customers' requirements
around this very challenging technology and we continue to follow our business
model of continuous product innovation for our tungsten and oxide product lines.

     We expanded our existing R&D capabilities in fiscal 2002 with the opening
of our new research and development facility in Aurora, Illinois. This facility
is staffed by a team that includes experts from the semiconductor industry and
scientists from key disciplines required for the development of high-performance
CMP products and features a state-of-the-art Class 1 clean room and advanced
equipment for slurry and pad product development. We have also invested in 300
mm polishing capability to remain aligned with our technology leading customers
and our ability to replicate their CMP activities in our cleanroom. We are now
in the process of enhancing our capability to provide our customers in the Asia
Pacific region with robust local technical support. We plan to establish
cleanroom capability within this region in 2004 that would provide customers
with more responsive applications and technical support than is currently
possible by relying on our infrastructure based primarily in the United States.
We believe competitive advantage lies in technology and that our existing and
planned investments in R&D provide us with leading edge polishing and metrology
capabilities to support the most advanced and challenging customer technology
requirements on a global basis.

     We expensed approximately $41.5 million, $33.7 million and $25.8 for
research and development in fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Investments in research and development property, plant and equipment are
capitalized and depreciated over their useful life.

COMPETITION

     We are aware of several other manufacturers with significant commercial
sales of CMP slurries for IC devices and competition continues to increase as
other companies are attempting to enter this market. We believe no other CMP
competitor has the track record we do of meeting performance demands associated
with developing advanced technology, improving existing technology and
successfully meeting the stringent supply requirements of the IC industry. In
the data storage area we are aware of only two other manufacturers with
significant commercial sales of CMP slurries for polishing the magnetic heads
and the coating on hard disks in hard disk drives. We believe the CMP polishing
pad market is currently led by one principal supplier, Rohm and Haas (through
its Rodel subsidiary). We may also face competition from other companies that
develop

                                        9
<PAGE>

CMP products, customers that currently have, or that may develop, in-house
capability to produce their own CMP products, and from significant changes in
technology, such as the development of polishing pads containing abrasives and
emerging technologies such as electrical chemical mechanical planarization
("ECMP"). We expect ECMP to use an electrolyte solution to polish certain metal
surfaces and be used in conjunction with traditional CMP slurries.

     During this fiscal year, pricing pressure in our business has continued.
This is based both on IC manufacturers' pursuit of lower supply costs during the
sustained industry downturn as well as from CMP competitors. We believe that
customers make supplier decisions based on three factors, in this order of
priority: first, product performance; second, supply assurance, which entails
not only redundancy in manufacturing but the ability of the supplier to reliably
deliver consistent product and provide technical and manufacturing support for
the product globally; and third, product price. We believe that we are presently
well positioned with respect to these factors.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     Our intellectual property is important to our success and ability to
compete. We currently have 55 U.S. patents and 72 pending U.S. patent
applications covering CMP related products and processes. In most cases we file
counterpart foreign patent applications. Many of these patents are important to
our continued development of new and innovative products for CMP and related
processes. Our patents have a range of duration and we do not expect to lose any
material patent through the expiration of such patent in the next seven years.
We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of
patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as employee and
third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Our facilities are subject to various environmental laws and regulations,
including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling
and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and occupational safety and health.
We believe that our facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable
environmental laws and regulations. Our facilities have incurred, and will
continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in
complying with these laws and regulations in both the United States and abroad.
However, we currently do not anticipate that the future costs of environmental
compliance will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.

EMPLOYEES

     As of September 30, 2003, we employed 549 individuals, including 262 in
operations, 183 in research and development, 54 in sales and marketing and 50 in
administration. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and in general consider
our relations with our employees to be good.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

     Our revenue from customers in the United States totaled $79.9 million,
$81.0 million and $87.1 million, and total revenue in other geographic locations
totaled $171.8 million, $154.2 million and $140.1 million for fiscal years 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively. Revenue from both Taiwan and Japan accounted for
more than ten percent of our total revenue. Our revenue from customers in Taiwan
totaled $63.8 million, $54.9 million and $46.6 million for fiscal years 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively. Our revenue from customers in Japan totaled $40.3
million, $34.2 million and $35.8 million for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. Revenue attributable to foreign regions are based upon the
customer location and not the geographic location from which our products were
shipped.

     Net property, plant and equipment in the United States totaled $102.8
million, $100.9 million and $64.2 million and net property, plant and equipment
in other geographic locations totaled $30.9 million, $31.4 million and $33.3
million at September 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. More than ten
percent of
                                        10
<PAGE>

our net property, plant and equipment is located in Japan, having a net book
value of $28.1 million, $27.1 million and $29.4 million at September 30, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

     Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, definitive
proxy statements on Form 14a, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to
those reports, are made available free of charge on our company web site at
www.cabotcmp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Statements of changes in
beneficial ownership of our securities on Form 4 by our executive officers and
directors are made available on our company web site by the end of the business
day following the submission to the SEC of such filings. In addition, the SEC's
website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy statements, and other information
regarding reports that we file electronically with the SEC.
