ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     Founded in 1984, Cirrus Logic is a leading supplier of high-performance
analog and DSP chip solutions for Internet entertainment electronics, analog and
magnetic markets. In February 1999, we were reincorporated in the State of
Delaware. We design and manufacture integrated circuits, or chips, that use
high-performance analog and digital signal processing technologies. Analog and
digital signal processing refers to technologies to manipulate and improve the
quality of analog and digital signals. It also includes the conversion of
signals from digital-to-analog and analog-to-digital, as is frequently required
in electronic equipment. A device that can perform both of these conversion
functions is referred to as a coder-decoder, or codec. Codecs and other devices
that support both digital and analog signals are referred to as mixed signal
devices. Our mixed signal devices are designed for specific markets that derive
value from our expertise in advanced mixed-signal design processing,
systems-level engineering and software knowledge. Our products enable our
customers to quickly deliver leading-edge technology products that are in high
demand from consumers.

MARKETS AND PRODUCTS

     Our products are currently used in the audio, consumer electronics,
telecommunications, data acquisition and personal computer markets. We organize
our products into three business groups:

          Analog products: consumer audio, industrial automation and control,
     data acquisition, personal computer, and communication applications

          Internet solutions: optical storage and embedded processor
     applications

          Magnetic storage: hard disk drive and read/write applications

     We offer more than 200 products to over 3,000 customers worldwide, through
both direct and indirect sales channels. Our major customers are among the
world's leading electronics manufacturers and include Apple, Bose, Creative
Technologies, Dell, Denon, Fujitsu, Harman, Hitachi, IBM, Kenwood, Pace,
Panasonic, Pioneer, Schlumberger, SonicBlue, Sony and Western Digital.

     We target large existing markets, as well as emerging growth markets that
derive value from our expertise in advanced mixed-signal design processing,
systems-level engineering and software expertise. This expertise is implemented
primarily in integrated circuits and related operating systems, but may also
include subsystem modules or system equipment designs and related software.

     In the first quarter of fiscal year 2002, we announced that we would be
focusing our business on consumer-entertainment electronics, with strength in
analog and DSP technologies. We also announced that we would be de-emphasizing
our magnetic storage chip business.

ANALOG PRODUCTS BUSINESS GROUP

     Our analog line of products is utilized in consumer audio, industrial
automation and control, data acquisition, personal computer and communications
products.

  Consumer Audio

     The consumer audio business currently offers more than 100 products for the
consumer, professional and automotive audio markets.

     Our consumer products are incorporated into a wide range of audio equipment
in the high-fidelity audio market, including audio/video receivers and
amplifiers, cable and satellite set-top audio decoders, digital audio tape
recorders, audio and video compact disc players, powered speakers, DVD players
and MP3 players. DVD players use an optical disk technology that is expected to
replace the audio and video compact disk, as well as the computer CD-ROM, over
the next few years due to its significantly greater storage capacity. MP3
                                        1
<PAGE>   4

technology typically provides a greater than ten to one file size reduction for
digital audio content. By using MP3 compression, approximately an hour of audio
content can be loaded into a small form factor, 32 MB solid-state portable music
player. Our products convert the player's internal digital sound output into an
analog audio signal.

     Our products include analog-to-digital converters, digital-to-analog
converters, codecs that combine analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog
converters in a single package, digital interface components, and a family of
audio decoders that use digital signal processing technology and that support
the principal standards in the audio industry, such as Dolby Digital (AC-3),
AAC, Digital Theater System (DTS), Moving Picture Experts Group audio decoding,
Prologic/PrologicII, THX, and other special sound effects processing. Our
customers include Aiwa, Bose, Harman Kardon, Kenwood, Marantz, Onkyo, Panasonic,
Pioneer, RCA/ Thomson, Sony, and Yamaha. We are the world's number one supplier
of audio devices for both the MP3 player market and the audio/video receiver
markets.

     Our professional and automotive products include analog-to-digital
converters, digital-to-analog converters, digital interface products, sample
rate converters, and products that enhance audio signal quality using digital
signal processing technology. Our professional and automotive products are
incorporated in high-end professional recording equipment, high performance
digital mixing consoles, special effects processors, musical instrument
amplifiers, and automotive stereo systems.

     The following consumer, professional and automotive products are expected
to be the most important in the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
PRODUCT FAMILY                   DESCRIPTION             FUNCTION/END USES           STATUS
--------------                   -----------             -----------------           ------
<S>                        <C>                        <C>                        <C>
Audio codecs               Analog-to-digital and      Consumer and               In production
                           digital-to-analog          professional audio
                           converters                 equipment
Multi-standard, multi-     Single chip DSP that       Home entertainment/        In production
channel audio/video        supports/converts          theater systems, DVD
decoders                   multiple audio             players, and set-top
                           standards, such as         boxes
                           Dolby Digital AC-3,
                           AAC, Digital Theatre
                           Systems (DTS), THX and
                           Moving Picture Experts
                           Group audio standards.
Analog-to-digital          Convert analog signals     Consumer equipment         In production
converters, digital-to-    into digital data and      supporting CD-ROM,
analog converters          digital data into          CD-R, CD-RW, and SACD
                           analog signals.            encoded media, powered
                           Typically used in          speakers, DVD players
                           conjunction with other     and portable MP3
                           digital signal             players. High end
                           processing elements in     professional recording
                           a system.                  equipment and high
                                                      performance digital
                                                      mixing consoles.
High performance sample    Interconnects different    High performance           In production
rate converters            digital audio devices      digital mixing
                           by reformatting the        consoles, CD- ROM
                           digital audio stream.      players and
                                                      professional audio
                                                      recording equipment.
Digital signal             Integrates digital         Special effects            In production
processing with            signal processing into     processors for the
integrated high            an analog system.          music industry.
performance codec
</TABLE>

                                        2
<PAGE>   5

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
PRODUCT FAMILY                   DESCRIPTION             FUNCTION/END USES           STATUS
--------------                   -----------             -----------------           ------
<S>                        <C>                        <C>                        <C>
Digital audio interface    Provides a digital         Consumer and               In production
products                   audio connection within    professional
                           and between audio/video    applications including
                           systems.                   audio/video equipment,
                                                      effects processors,
                                                      mixing consoles, and
                                                      digital speaker
                                                      systems.
High efficiency Class D    New digital audio          Consumer, professional     In development
(PWM) converters and       technology that            and automotive systems.
power amplifiers           replaces existing
                           analog implementations.
                           Class D (PWM) power
                           amplifiers are
                           characterized by high
                           energy efficiency and
                           low heat output. Class
                           D amplifiers and
                           converters enable new
                           small form factor
                           systems and can provide
                           more battery life in
                           portable systems.
</TABLE>

  Data Acquisition

     We design, manufacture and market analog, digital and mixed-signal chips
for data acquisition, instrumentation and imaging applications. Our data
acquisition product family includes more than 100 products used in industrial
automation, instrumentation, medical, military and geophysical applications.
Types of applications include the measurement of energy usage in power meters
and fluorescent light fixtures, temperature gauges for industrial and medical
use, seismic devices for oil field applications and high-precision weigh scales
for commercial and scientific use. Our broad line of analog-to-digital
converters consists of general purpose and low frequency measurement devices.
These devices use patented self-calibration techniques that improve accuracy and
reduce system-level cost. Our customers include National Instruments, Rockwell
Automation and Schlumberger. In addition to supporting a product family,
technology from our data acquisition business is used in integrated circuits
across all of our product lines.

     The following data acquisition products are expected to be the most
important in the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
PRODUCT FAMILY                   DESCRIPTION             FUNCTION/END USES           STATUS
--------------                   -----------             -----------------           ------
<S>                        <C>                        <C>                        <C>
Analog-to-digital          High precision             Used in industrial         In production
converters                 converter                  applications to amplify
                                                      and digitize analog
                                                      signals from sensors
                                                      that transduce
                                                      phenomenon like force,
                                                      temperature, or
                                                      pressure.
Energy measurement         Single chip solution       Used by the power-meter    In production
                           for energy measurement     and fluorescent light
                           applications               market to measure and
                                                      manage electricity
                                                      usage in residential
                                                      and commercial
                                                      buildings
</TABLE>

  Computer Audio Products

     We currently offer more than 15 computer audio products for use in personal
computers and workstations. A workstation is a computer intended for individual
use, which is faster and more capable than a

                                        3
<PAGE>   6

personal computer. Our chips are incorporated in the motherboards of desktop and
notebook computers and workstations, as well as in external cards that plug into
computers and workstations and enable audio functions on those machines. We are
one of the leading suppliers of stereo audio chips for the personal computer and
workstation markets. Our chips provide high quality audio signals for the input
and output functions of personal computer and workstation audio products. Our
chips support a range of personal computer and workstation audio systems,
including those that offer three dimensional sound effects and music synthesis,
such as sound processing and mixing capabilities, as well as compatibility with
standard audio software packages, such as SoundBlaster(TM) and Microsoft
Sound(TM). Our computer audio products enhance the sound quality and audio
capabilities of personal computers and workstations. These products include
personal computer interface digital signal processors, which enable advanced
audio functions, such as music synthesis, including sound processing and mixing
capabilities for gaming, MP3 encode and decode and the home theater listening
experience with Dolby Digital(TM) and DTS(TM) in add-in cards. Other products
that enhance the sound quality and audio capabilities of personal computers and
workstations include controller products, which enable special sound effects
processing in personal computers and workstations and allow personal computer
gamers to perceive sound as coming from various points around them in a
three-dimensional space, sound equalizers, acoustic echo cancellation for high
quality Internet audio, acceleration for Microsoft Direct Sound(TM), and other
standard industry interfaces such as A3D and EAX. Our principal customers
include Creative Technologies, Dell, Hewlett Packard, Intel and IBM.

     The following computer audio products are expected to be the most important
in the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
PRODUCT FAMILY                   DESCRIPTION             FUNCTION/END USES           STATUS
--------------                   -----------             -----------------           ------
<S>                        <C>                        <C>                        <C>
AC '97 Audio codecs        Analog-to-digital and      Converts audio to/from     In production
                           digital-analog             digital data. Used in
                           converters                 workstation and
                                                      personal computer
                                                      motherboards and
                                                      external cards.
Digital signal             Special effects digital    Enables advanced audio     In production
processing with            signal processors          functions such as music
integrated high                                       synthesis, including
performance codec                                     sound processing and
                                                      mixing capabilities in
                                                      add-in cards.
Peripheral component       High-integration           Enables connection         In production
interconnect audio         personal-computer audio    between personal
controllers (PCI           controllers. Range of      computers or
Controllers)               low- cost to               workstations, and
                           high-performance           peripheral computer
                           digital signal             components, such as
                           processing based           audio cards, external
                           solutions. Digital         speakers and portable
                           signal processing          computers, which plug
                           solutions offer            into docking stations.
                           advanced audio
                           processing such as
                           three-dimensional
                           positioning for games,
                           wavetable music
                           synthesis and sound
                           equalization.
</TABLE>

  Communications

     We design, manufacture and market embedded Ethernet chips for use in
broadband access customer premises equipment, such as digital cable set-top
boxes, cable modems, and DSL modems. These broadband access devices, also known
as "residential gateways," enable home users to access voice, video and data
content, typically using the Internet, over a single communications connection.
The same Ethernet chips are commonly used in other embedded applications, such
as Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP) telephones, industrial controllers, and
wireless access points. In addition, we develop and market integrated circuit

                                        4
<PAGE>   7

products, primarily T1/E1 Line Interface Units, which provide switched telephony
network interface solutions for telecommunications and data communications
equipment. Our newest product family is communication processors for VoIP
telephones, residential gateways, and other embedded applications. These devices
feature ARM processor cores, with advanced peripherals and on-board Ethernet
interfaces.

     The following communications products are expected to be the most important
in the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
PRODUCT FAMILY                   DESCRIPTION             FUNCTION/END USES           STATUS
--------------                   -----------             -----------------           ------
<S>                        <C>                        <C>                        <C>
Embedded Ethernet          High integration,          Used in embedded           In production
controllers                simplified design          systems, especially for
                           10BASE-T and 10/100        broadband access, such
                           local area network         as cable set-top boxes,
                           controllers and analog     cable and DSL modems
                           front ends.
Telecom T1/E1 Line         Broad family of high-      TI and E1 standard         In production
Interface Units            performance, mixed-        applications such as
                           signal devices for         multiplexors, PSTN
                           interfacing network        switches and other
                           equipment to high-speed    communications
                           communications lines.      equipment for Central
                                                      Office and Customers
                                                      Premises.
Communications             System on a chip           Voice-over-Internet-       Ramping
processors                 processor solutions        Protocol telephones,
                           based on the ARM7 and      residential gateways
                           ARM9 architectures,        and other
                           with on-board Ethernet     communications
                           interfaces.                applications.
</TABLE>

INTERNET SOLUTIONS BUSINESS GROUP

     Our Internet line of products consists of chips for optical storage and
embedded processor applications.

  Optical Storage

     We supply chips that perform key electronics functions in advanced optical
disc drives, including both PC-based CD-RW drives and consumer-market DVD
drives. The CD-ROM drive, found in computers and workstations for storing and
retrieving electronic information on a compact disc, is the most common optical
disc drive. CD-ROM drives do not allow writing to the compact disk. Recently,
CD-ROM drives have been developed that permit users of personal computers and
workstations to record on CD-ROMs either once, referred to as CD-R drives, or
numerous times, referred to as CD-RW drives. The information stored on a CD is
transmitted to the computer or workstation through a device referred to as a
decoder and is written to CD-R or CD-RW through a device referred to as an
encoder. The company entered the optical storage market in fiscal 1995 with a
CD-ROM decoder product, followed by three more generations of CD-ROM decoders
with higher read speeds. In fiscal 2001, we discontinued our CD-ROM decoder
products. In fiscal 1997, we introduced our first CD-RW encoder/decoder
products. In fiscal 2001, the company introduced the industry's first CD-RW
encoder/decoder product capable of writing to double-density CD-RW media, which
is capable of storing twice the data of conventional CD-RW media.

     We also provide chips for the DVD drive electronics market. We completed
development of the CL3710 DVD drive manager device in fiscal 2001. This product
is a fully integrated, high performance solution for a variety of DVD
applications, including PC-based DVD-ROM drives, consumer DVD players, DVD-based
game consoles and emerging consumer DVD-recordable components. We began making
production shipments at the end of fiscal 2001.

                                        5
<PAGE>   8

     We currently sell products to a number of customers in the optical storage
market. The following optical storage products are expected to be the most
important in the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
PRODUCT FAMILY                   DESCRIPTION             FUNCTION/END USES           STATUS
--------------                   -----------             -----------------           ------
<S>                        <C>                        <C>                        <C>
CD-R and CD-RW             Single chip providing      Incorporated into a        In production
encoder/decoder            up to 16x write and 48x    CD-R/CD-RW drives for
                           read speeds for single     personal computers,
                           density and double         workstations, and
                           density CD-R/CD-RW         consumer devices
                           drives. Support for
                           consumer, ATAPI and
                           IEEE 1394 interfaces.
Integrated DVD drive       Fully integrated DVD       Single chip front-end      In production
manager                    Drive manager,             electronics that can be
                           incorporating a partial    configured with an
                           response maximum           audio DAC, external
                           likelihood (PRML) read-    buffer memory, and a
                           channel servo-control      local micro-controller
                           and decoder functions      to create a complete
                           for DVD-ROM and DVD-       DVD solution for
                           Player applications.       DVD-ROM drives, DVD
                                                      players, DVD-based game
                                                      consoles and DVD
                                                      recordable components.
</TABLE>

  Embedded Processors

     We develop, manufacture and market highly integrated, system-on-chip (SOC)
products for emerging consumer applications. SOC products integrate a number of
different functions, or systems, onto a single chip. In the past, most
electronic products required multiple chips to perform all the functions;
reducing the number of chips in a design allows space and cost savings for
consumers. Our SOC designs are based on processor cores licensed from ARM Ltd.
Our primary focus is on market-specific processors sold under the Maverick(R)
brand name. These products are designed for use in digital audio devices,
handheld information appliances and Internet computing devices. Currently, we
are the leading supplier of chips in the portable digital audio market, with
customers including SonicBlue (formerly S3/Diamond Multimedia), Creative
Technologies, Compaq, and Intel. Our next generation of Maverick(R) chips will
enable further growth of the digital audio market via a new home entertainment
appliance called the Digital Audio Jukebox. This product compresses music
acquired over the Internet or from personal collections, stores the music on a
local hard disk drive, and allows the music to be played over a home
entertainment system. Other Maverick(R) chips specifically target applications
such as PDAs (personal digital assistants) and Internet information appliances,
such as electronic books and low-cost Internet terminals.

                                        6
<PAGE>   9

     The following embedded processor products are expected to be the most
important in the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
PRODUCT FAMILY                   DESCRIPTION             FUNCTION/END USES           STATUS
--------------                   -----------             -----------------           ------
<S>                        <C>                        <C>                        <C>
High-performance, ultra    ARM 720T processor core    Used in handheld           In production
low power, system-on-      integrated with liquid     digital audio players,
chip with LCD              Crystal(R) display         personal digital
controller                 (LCD) and DRAM             assistants, and
                           controllers, USB           Internet access
                           interface, Digital         appliance applications
                           Audio Interface and        for portable,
                           Internet security          battery-powered
                           software.                  devices. Multiple
                                                      products.
High performance, ARM9     ARM 920T processor core    Used in line powered       Testing
Secure SOC                 integrated with            internet appliances,
                           Ethernet, EIDE, and USB    such as digital audio
                           interfaces, math co-       jukeboxes and web
                           processor engine, and      browser terminals.
                           security features.         Multiple products.
</TABLE>

MAGNETIC STORAGE BUSINESS GROUP

     We supply chips that perform the key electronics functions contained in
advanced magnetic and removable disk drives for personal computers and
workstations. In fiscal 2001, we announced that we had entered into a strategic
supply agreement with Fujitsu, in which Fujitsu's hard-disk drive division
agreed to purchase approximately $200 million of our 3CI(TM) magnetic storage
chips during the following 12 months. Our magnetic storage customers during
fiscal 2001 included Fujitsu, Hitachi, and Western Digital. In May 2001, we
announced that we are de-emphasizing our magnetic storage chip business.

MANUFACTURING

     We purchase wafers manufactured by third-party wafer fabricators for our
wafer manufacturing needs. In addition to our wafer supply arrangements, we
currently contract with third-party assembly vendors to package the wafer die
into finished products. We qualify and monitor assembly vendors using procedures
similar in scope to those used for wafer procurement. Assembly vendors provide
fixed-cost-per-unit pricing, as is common in the semiconductor industry.

     During fiscal 1998, we started outsourcing a substantial portion of our
production testing. Our manufacturing organization has continued to qualify and
monitor suppliers' production processes, to participate in process development,
package development and process and product characterization, to perform
mixed-signal production testing, to support R&D activities, and to maintain
quality standards. As of April 28, 2001, we had approximately 23% of our
employees engaged in manufacturing-related activities.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

     To protect our products, we rely heavily on trade secret, patent,
copyright, mask work and trademark laws. We apply for patents arising from our
research and development activities and intend to continue this practice in the
future to protect our products and technologies. As of April 30, 2001, we held
692 U.S. patents, 333 U.S. patent applications pending, and various
corresponding international patents and applications. We have also licensed a
variety of technologies important to our business from outside parties to
complement our own research and development efforts.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     We concentrate our research and development efforts on the design and
development of new products for each market and on the continued enhancement of
our design automation tools. Product-oriented research and development efforts
are organized along the Analog, Internet and Magnetic Storage Business Groups.
We also

                                        7
<PAGE>   10

fund certain advanced process technology development, as well as other emerging
product opportunities. Expenditures for research and development in fiscal 2001,
2000, and 1999, were $127.6 million, $121.4 million (excluding acquired
in-process research and development expenses of $8.0 million in fiscal year
2000), and $149.8 million, respectively. As of April 28, 2001, approximately 43%
of our employees were engaged in research and development activities. Our future
success is highly dependent upon our ability to develop complex new products, to
transfer new products to production in a timely fashion, to introduce them to
the marketplace ahead of the competition, and to have them selected for design
into products of leading systems manufacturers.

COMPETITION

     Markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect that
competition will increase. We compete with other semiconductor suppliers that
offer standard semiconductors, application-specific integrated circuits and
fully customized integrated circuits, including both chip and board-level
products. A few customers also develop integrated circuits that compete with our
products. Our competitive strategy has been to provide lower-cost versions of
existing products and new, more advanced products for customers' new designs.

     While no single company competes with us in all of our product lines, we
face significant competition in each of our product lines. We expect to face
additional competition from new entrants in each of our markets, which may
include both large domestic and international semiconductor manufacturers and
smaller, emerging companies.

     The principal competitive factors in our markets include time to market;
quality of hardware/software design and end-market systems expertise; price;
product benefits that are characterized by performance, features, quality and
compatibility with standards; access to advanced process and packaging
technologies at competitive prices; and sales and technical support.

     Competition typically occurs at the design stage, where the customer
evaluates alternative design approaches that require integrated circuits.
Because our products have not been available from second sources, we generally
do not face direct competition in selling our products to a customer once our
integrated circuits have been designed into that customer's system.
Nevertheless, because of shortened product life cycles and even shorter
design-in cycles, our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to
achieve design wins in next-generation systems. In the event that competitors
succeed in supplanting our products, our market share may not be sustainable and
net sales, gross margin and earnings would be adversely affected.

SALES, MARKETING AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT

     Our products are sold worldwide, principally to Asia. Export sales, which
include sales to U.S.-based customers with manufacturing plants overseas, were
82% in fiscal 2001, 75% in fiscal 2000, and 74% in fiscal 1999, respectively. We
maintain a worldwide sales force, which is intended to provide geographically
specific selling support to our customers, and specialized selling of product
lines with unique customer bases.

     The domestic sales force includes a network of regional direct sales
offices located in California, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Oregon, Texas and Virginia. International sales offices and
organizations are located in France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, the
Netherlands, Singapore, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom. We supplement our direct
sales force with sales representative organizations and distributors. Technical
support staff is located at the sales offices and also at our facilities in
Fremont, California; Broomfield, Colorado; Nashua, New Hampshire; Austin, Texas;
Pune, India; and Tokyo, Japan.

     See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" for export sales information.

                                        8
<PAGE>   11

BACKLOG

     Sales are made primarily pursuant to standard short-term purchase orders
for delivery of standard products. The quantity actually ordered by the
customer, as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised to reflect
changes in the customer's needs. As a result, we believe that our backlog at any
given time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenues.

EMPLOYEES

     As of April 28, 2001, we had approximately 1,356 full-time equivalent
employees, of whom 43% were engaged in research and product development, 34% in
sales, marketing, general and administrative, and 23% in manufacturing. Our
future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract,
retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and
management personnel.

     Due to the highly competitive nature of the marketplace that we operate in,
we may from time to time lose key employees to certain of our competitors. We
have been able to hire qualified personnel in the past to fill open positions
created by such occurrences, although there can be no assurance that we will be
able to do this in the future. None of our employees is represented by any
collective bargaining agreements.

FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS

  WE HAVE HISTORICALLY EXPERIENCED FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND
  EXPECT THESE FLUCTUATIONS TO CONTINUE IN FUTURE PERIODS.

     Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety
of factors that could materially and adversely affect our net sales, gross
margins and operating income. These factors include:

     - the volume and timing of orders received,

     - changes in the mix of our products sold,

     - market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers,

     - competitive pricing pressures,

     - our ability to expand manufacturing output to meet increasing demand,

     - our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis,

     - fixed costs associated with minimum purchase commitments under supply
       contracts if demand decreases,

     - the timing and extent of our research and development expenses,

     - cyclical semiconductor industry conditions,

     - the failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements,

     - fluctuations in manufacturing costs,

     - disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly services,

     - the ability of customers to make payments to us,

     - increases in material costs,

     - certain production and other risks associated with using independent
       manufacturers, and

     - product obsolescence, price erosion and other competitive factors.

     Historically in the integrated circuit industry, average selling prices of
products have decreased over time. If we are unable to introduce new products
with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated
decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results will be
adversely affected.

                                        9
<PAGE>   12

Our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules, and
customer orders typically can be canceled or rescheduled without penalty to the
customer. In addition, because of fixed costs in the integrated circuit
industry, we are limited in our ability to reduce costs quickly in response to
any revenue shortfalls. As a result of the foregoing or other factors, we may
experience material adverse fluctuations in our future operating results on a
quarterly or annual basis.

  OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS ON A TIMELY
  BASIS.

     Our success depends upon our ability to develop new precision linear and
mixed-signal circuits for new and existing markets, to introduce such products
in a timely manner, and to have such products gain market acceptance. The
development of new precision linear and mixed-signal circuits is highly complex
and from time to time we have experienced delays in developing and introducing
new products. Successful product development and introduction depends on a
number of factors, including:

     - proper new product definition,

     - timely completion of design and testing of new products,

     - achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields, and

     - market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers.

     Although we seek to design products that have the potential to become
industry standard products, we cannot assure you that any products introduced by
us will be adopted by such market leaders, or that any products initially
accepted by our customers that are market leaders will become industry standard
products. Both revenues and margins may be materially affected if new product
introductions are delayed or if our products are not designed into successive
generations of our customers' products. We cannot assure you that we will be
able to meet these challenges or adjust to changing market conditions as quickly
and cost-effectively as necessary to compete successfully. Our failure to
develop and introduce new products successfully could harm our business and
operating results.

     Successful product design and development is dependent on our ability to
attract, retain and motivate qualified design engineers, of which there is a
limited number. Due to the complexity and variety of precision linear and
mixed-signal circuits, the limited number of qualified circuit designers, and
the limited effectiveness of computer-aided design systems in the design of such
circuits, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop and
introduce new products on a timely basis.

  OUR PRODUCTS ARE COMPLEX AND COULD CONTAIN DEFECTS, WHICH COULD REDUCE SALES
  OF THOSE PRODUCTS OR RESULT IN CLAIMS AGAINST US.

     Product development in the markets we serve is becoming more focused on the
integration of functionality on individual devices. There is a general trend
towards increasingly complex products. The greater integration of functions and
complexity of operations of our products increase the risk that latent defects
or subtle faults could be discovered by our customers or end users after volumes
of product have been shipped. This could result in:

     - material recall and replacement costs for product warranty and support;

     - adverse impact to our customer relationships by the recurrence of
       significant defects;

     - delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure
       to achieve market acceptance; and

     - diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from our product
       development efforts.

     The occurrence of any of these problems could result in the delay or loss
of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. In
addition, any defects or other problems with our products could result in
financial or other damages to our customers who could seek damages from us for
their losses. A

                                        10
<PAGE>   13

product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely
be time consuming and costly to defend.

  THE INTEGRATED CIRCUIT INDUSTRY IS VERY CYCLICAL AND AN INDUSTRY DOWNTURN
  WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

     The integrated circuit industry is characterized by:

     - rapid technological change,

     - cyclical market patterns,

     - significant price erosion,

     - periods of over-capacity and production shortages,

     - variations in manufacturing costs and yields, and

     - significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development.

     The industry has from time to time experienced depressed business
conditions. Although the semiconductor industry in recent periods has
experienced increased demand and production capacity constraints, we cannot
assure you that these conditions will continue. In addition, we cannot assure
you that any future downturn in the industry will not be severe or that any such
downturn will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations. We cannot assure you that we will not experience substantial
period-to-period fluctuations in operating costs due to general semiconductor
industry conditions or other factors.

  IF WE FAIL TO ATTRACT, HIRE AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE
  TO DEVELOP, MARKET OR SELL OUR PRODUCTS OR SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR BUSINESS.

     Competition for personnel in our industry is intense. The number of
technology companies in our geographic area is greater than it has been
historically, and we expect competition for qualified personnel to intensify.
There is only a limited number of people in the job market with the requisite
skills. Our human resources organization focuses significant efforts on
attracting and retaining individuals in key technology positions. Declining
stock market prices, however, make retention more difficult, as prior equity
grants contain less value and key employees pursue equity opportunities
elsewhere. In addition, start-up companies generally offer larger equity grants
to attract individuals from more established companies. The loss of the services
of any key personnel or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite
skills could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing
products in a timely manner, sell products to our customers or manage our
business effectively.

  ANY DOWNTURN IN THE MARKETS WE SERVE WOULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

     Many of our products are incorporated into products such as personal
computers, magnetic storage, audio and industrial electronics, and embedded
processor products. These markets may from time to time experience cyclical,
depressed business conditions, often in connection with, or in anticipation of,
a decline in general economic conditions. Such industry downturns have resulted
in reduced product demand and declining average selling prices. Our business
would be harmed by any future downturns in the markets that we serve. The
sections below detail the risks associated with serving these various markets.

     THE FOLLOWING RISKS ARE ASSOCIATED WITH SERVING THE AUDIO PRODUCTS MARKET:

     - decreased average selling prices in the audio IC market due to
       competitive pricing pressures;

     - rapid integration of digital-to-analog converters into processors;

     - our ability to respond effectively to the market trend of integrating
       audio and video products;

                                        11
<PAGE>   14

     - decreased average selling prices in the audio integrated circuit market
       due to the PC industry's transition to the AC-link codecs attached to
       core logic using the multimedia features of the processor and single chip
       solution;

     - in the PC audio products market, the transition to core logic connected
       audio and by the introduction of cheaper, fully-integrated, single-chip
       audio integrated circuits;

     - aggressive competitive pricing pressures in the audio integrated circuits
       market; and

     - the inability of our audio products to meet cost or performance
       requirements of the three-dimensional, spatial-effects audio market.

     THE FOLLOWING RISKS ARE ASSOCIATED WITH SERVING THE EMBEDDED PROCESSOR
PRODUCTS MARKET:

     - increased competition from other semiconductor manufacturers now entering
       the market due to the increased popularity of consumer goods
       incorporating embedded processor products, such as portable digital audio
       players, smart cellular phones, set-top Internet and e-mail access boxes,
       and personal digital appliances;

     - our inability to meet embedded processor products requirements of an
       industry that has yet to define product standards;

     - customer delays in their product development and introductions; and

     - price competition from over 30 other embedded processor products
       manufacturers who have licensed ARM Ltd. central processing unit cores,
       the same central processing unit core we license, and who will likely
       produce products around these cores that are very similar to ours.

     THE FOLLOWING RISKS ARE ASSOCIATED WITH SERVING THE PRECISION DATA
CONVERSION MARKET:

     - our inability to establish broad sales channels and our failure to
       develop and maintain a sufficiently broad competitive product line;

     - customer delays in their product development and introductions;

     - our inability to reach the marketplace due to the technical complexity of
       our products and the time requirements for their development; and

     - our inability to attract, hire, and retain scarce analog engineering
       talent necessary for rapid product development in this market.

     THE FOLLOWING RISKS ARE ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INVOLVEMENT IN THE PC MARKETS:

     - greatly pronounced demand fluctuations characteristic of our role as a
       component supplier to PC original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and
       to peripheral device manufacturers;

     - our involvement in the consumer PC market, the most volatile segment of
       the PC market;

     - increased competition from other integrated circuit makers, including
       Intel Corporation, who plan to incorporate features into or with their
       microprocessor products that replicate those of our products;

     - loss of customer base as we refocus on non-PC markets; and

     - as a supplier to manufacturers at different levels of the production
       chain, our potential dependence on the success of a particular PC OEM due
       to our inability to accurately identify end-users of our product.

     THE FOLLOWING RISKS ARE ASSOCIATED WITH SERVING THE MAGNETIC STORAGE
MARKET:

     - significantly reduced demand for our magnetic storage products, due to
       recent efforts by certain of our customers to contract with our
       competitors for these products, as well as to develop their own
       integrated circuits for these products;

                                        12
<PAGE>   15

     - historically dramatic supply and demand fluctuations in the magnetic disk
       drive market, which is closely linked to growth in the PC market;

     - direct correlation between the competitive nature of the disk drive
       industry and the price of disk drive components;

     - our dependence on the success of certain 3.5 inch magnetic disk drive
       products that incorporate our products into their design;

     - our dependence on the successful introduction by our customers of new
       disk drive products that in turn can be impacted by the timing of
       customers' transition to new disk drive products;

     - our ability to respond effectively to the market trend of integrating
       hard disk controllers with micro-controllers; and

     - our ability to successfully compete with other firms with greater
       resources to accomplish the technical obstacles of integration and
       greater access to the advanced technologies necessary to provide
       integrated HDD electronic components.

  SHIFTS IN INDUSTRY-WIDE CAPACITY MAY CAUSE OUR RESULTS TO FLUCTUATE AND SUCH
  SHIFTS HAVE RESULTED AND COULD IN THE FUTURE RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY
  WRITE-DOWNS.

     Shifts in industry-wide capacity from shortages to oversupply or from
oversupply to shortages may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly
and annual operating results. We must order wafers and build inventory well in
advance of product shipments. Because the integrated circuit industry is highly
cyclical and is subject to significant downturns resulting from excess capacity,
overproduction, reduced demand or technological obsolescence, there is a risk
that we will forecast inaccurately and produce excess or insufficient
inventories of particular products. This inventory risk is heightened because
many of our customers place orders with short lead times. Due to the product
manufacturing cycle characteristic of integrated circuit manufacturing and the
inherent imprecision by our customers to accurately forecast their demand,
product inventories may not always correspond to product demand, leading to
shortages or surpluses of certain products. As a result of such inventory
imbalances, future inventory write-downs may occur due to lower of cost or
market accounting, excess inventory or inventory obsolescence.

  BECAUSE FOUNDRY CAPACITY IS LIMITED, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO ENTER INTO COSTLY
  LONG-TERM SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS TO SECURE FOUNDRY CAPACITY.

     We currently purchase all of our wafers from outside foundries. Market
conditions could result in wafers being in short supply and prevent us from
having adequate supply to meet our customer requirements. Any prolonged
inability to utilize our foundries as a result of fire, natural disaster or
otherwise would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations. If we are not able to obtain additional foundry capacity
as required, our business could be harmed in the following ways: (i) our
relationships with our customers would be harmed and consequently our sales
would likely be reduced; and (ii) we may be forced to purchase wafers or
packaging from higher cost suppliers or to pay expediting charges to obtain
additional supply

     In order to secure additional foundry capacity, we have entered into
contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of silicon wafers over
extended periods. In fact, during fiscal 1999, the industry experienced an
excess in production capacity that we believe, in some cases, resulted in our
competitors paying wafer prices that were lower than our cost of production from
our manufacturing joint ventures. As a result, we experienced pressures on our
selling prices during fiscal years 1999 and 2000, which harmed our revenues and
reduced our margins. In the future, we may not be able to secure capacity with
foundries in a timely fashion or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not
be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry
capacity, we may be obligated to utilize all of that capacity or incur
penalties. Such penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results.

                                        13
<PAGE>   16

  WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR SUBCONTRACTORS IN ASIA TO PERFORM KEY MANUFACTURING
  FUNCTIONS FOR US.

     We depend on third party subcontractors in Asia for the supply and
packaging of our products. International operations and sales may be subject to
political and economic risks, including political instability, currency
controls, exchange rate fluctuations, and changes in import/export regulations,
tariff and freight rates. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on our sole
and limited source suppliers, this concentration of suppliers and manufacturing
operations in Asia subjects us to the risks of conducting business
internationally, including political and economic conditions in Asia. Disruption
or termination of our supply or manufacturing could occur, and such disruptions
could harm our business and operating results.

  WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT INTERNATIONAL SALES AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THESE SALES
  COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

     Export sales, principally to Asia, include sales to U.S-based customers
with manufacturing plants overseas, and accounted for 82%, 75%, and 74% of our
net sales in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. We expect export sales
to continue to represent a significant portion of product sales. This reliance
on sales internationally subjects us to the risks of conducting business
internationally, including political and economic conditions. For example, the
financial instability in a given region, such as Asia, may have an adverse
impact on the financial position of end users in the region which could impact
future orders and/or the ability of such users to pay us or our customers, which
could also impact the ability of such customers to pay us. While we expect to
carefully evaluate the collection risk related to the financial position of
customers and potential customers in structuring the terms of sale, in
determining whether to accept sales orders, and in evaluating the recognition of
revenue, if a region's volatility harms the financial position of our customers,
our results of operations could be harmed. Our international sales operations
involve a number of other risks, including:

     - unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;

     - changes in diplomatic and trade relationships;

     - delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for
       technology;

     - tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; and

     - the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws.

     In addition, while we may buy hedging instruments to reduce our exposure to
currency exchange rate fluctuations, our competitive position can be affected by
the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, particularly the
Japanese yen. Consequently, increases in the value of the dollar would increase
the price in local currencies of our products in foreign markets and make our
products relatively more expensive. We cannot assure you that regulatory,
political and other factors will not adversely affect our operations in the
future or require us to modify our current business practices.

  POTENTIAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS AND LITIGATION COULD SUBJECT US TO
  SIGNIFICANT LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES AND COULD INVALIDATE OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS.

     Our success depends on our ability to obtain patents and licenses and to
preserve our other intellectual property rights covering our manufacturing
processes, products and development and testing tools. We seek patent protection
for those inventions and technologies for which we believe such protection is
suitable and is likely to provide a competitive advantage to us. Notwithstanding
our attempts to protect our proprietary rights, we believe that our future
success will depend primarily upon the technical expertise, creative skills and
management abilities of our officers and key employees rather than on patent and
copyright ownership. We also rely substantially on trade secrets and proprietary
technology to protect our technology and manufacturing know-how, and work
actively to foster continuing technological innovation to maintain and protect
our competitive position.

     The integrated circuit industry is characterized by frequent litigation
regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you
that any patent owned by us will not be invalidated,

                                        14
<PAGE>   17

circumvented or challenged, that rights granted under the patent will provide
competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent
applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at
all. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be
unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. We cannot assure you that
steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property will be adequate or that
our competitors will not independently develop or patent substantially
equivalent or superior technologies.

     As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers have from
time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third
parties asserting patents, maskwork rights, or copyrights on certain of our
products and technologies. In the event a third party were to make a valid
intellectual property claim and a license was not available on commercially
reasonable terms, our operating results could be harmed. Litigation, which could
result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources, may also be
necessary to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. An
unfavorable outcome in any such suit could have an adverse effect on our future
operations and/or liquidity.

  STRONG COMPETITION IN THE HIGH-PERFORMANCE INTEGRATED CIRCUIT MARKET MAY HARM
  OUR BUSINESS.

     The high-performance integrated circuit industry is highly competitive and
subject to rapid technological change. Significant competitive factors in our
markets include:

     - product features, reliability, performance and price;

     - the diversity and timing of new product introductions;

     - the emergence of new computer standards and other customer systems;

     - product quality;

     - efficiency of production; and

     - customer support

     Because of shortened product life cycles and even shorter design-in cycles,
our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to achieve design wins
in next generation systems. In the event that competitors succeed in supplanting
our products, our market share may not be sustainable and net sales, gross
margin, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our principal
competitors include: Analog Devices, Advanced Micro Devices, Broadcom, C-Cube,
Conexant, Creative Technologies, ESS Technologies, Infineon, Intel, LSI Logic,
Linear Technology, Lucent Technologies, Motorola, Philips, Siemens, SigmaTel, ST
Microelectronics, Texas Instruments, Yamaha, and Zoran, many of whom have
substantially greater financial and other resources than we do with which to
pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.
We expect intensified competition from emerging companies and from customers who
develop their own integrated circuit products. Increased competition could
adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
compete successfully in the future or that competitive pressures will not
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Competitive
pressures could reduce market acceptance of our products and result in price
reductions and increases in expenses that could adversely affect our business
and our financial condition.

     In addition, our future success depends, in part, on the continued service
of our key engineering, marketing, sales, manufacturing, support, and executive
personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate
qualified personnel. The competition for such employees is intense, and the loss
of the services of one or more of these key personnel could adversely affect our
business.

                                        15
<PAGE>   18

  IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAKE CONTINUED SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENTS IN RESEARCH AND
  DEVELOPMENT, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS.

     We must continue to make substantial investments in research and
development to develop new and enhanced products and solutions. If we fail to
make sufficient investments in research and development programs, new
technologies could render our current and planned products obsolete, resulting
in the need to change the focus of our research and development and product
strategies, and disrupting our business significantly.
