
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

  Cirrus Logic, Inc. was reincorporated in the state of Delaware on February
17, 1999. Prior to this date, we had been incorporated in California since
February 3, 1984 as the successor to a research corporation which had been
incorporated in Utah in 1981. Our principal executive offices are located at
4210 South Industrial Drive, Austin, Texas 78744. Our telephone number at that
address is (512) 445-7222.

  We design and manufacture integrated circuits that employ high-performance
analog and digital signal processing (DSP) technologies. Our products, sold
under our own name and the Crystal(R), Maverick(TM), and 3Ci(TM) product
brands, enable system-level applications in the Analog (audio, communications
and data acquisition), Internet (embedded processors and optical storage), and
Magnetic Storage (hard disk drive electronics integration and read channels)
markets.

  Within the analog, Internet and magnetic storage markets, we serve a broad
customer base. Key customers include Apple, Creative Technologies, Dell,
Fujitsu, Hewlett Packard, Hitachi, IBM, Sony, Trigem, and Western Digital.

Markets and Products

  We target large existing markets, as well as emerging growth markets that
derive value from our expertise in advanced mixed-signal design processing,
systems-level engineering and software expertise to create integrated
solutions that enable our customers to differentiate their products and
accelerate their time to market. These solutions are implemented primarily in
integrated circuits, or ICs, and related software/firmware, but may also
include subsystem modules or system equipment designs and related software.

  Our products currently address key system-level applications for consumer
audio and industrial measurement and control as well as magnetic and optical
mass storage, and to a lesser extent applications for high-speed Internet
access, handheld and portable computing and power measurement.

  In the second quarter of fiscal 1999, we launched a major initiative to
refine our business strategy and revitalize growth through concentration on
our leadership positions in the analog, Internet, and magnetic storage
markets. This initiative included the phasing out of certain non-strategic
businesses along with reducing our total fixed wafer fabrication capacity by
approximately 70%. We have since divested elements of our communications
product line and the personal computer ("PC") Modem business in addition to
outsourcing our PC graphics support. Further, our future intention is to
continue de-emphasizing new product developments targeted primarily for the PC
motherboard and emphasize non-PC motherboard market opportunities in the
Analog, Internet, and Magnetic Storage markets. However, sales of many of our
products over the near term will continue to depend largely on the sales of
PCs.

ANALOG PRODUCTS BUSINESS GROUP

  Our analog line of products address PC and consumer audio, data acquisition,
industrial automation and control, and communications applications.

Computer Audio Products Division

  The Computer Audio division currently offers over 25 products for the
computer market. We are one of the leading suppliers of stereo codecs for the
PC market including ISA, AC-97 and serial interface codecs. These mixed signal
devices provide high-quality audio for input and output functions of PC audio
products, including those that offer 3D processing, SoundBlaster
compatibility, Microsoft Sound compatibility and music synthesis. The Computer
Audio Division also offers personal computer interface digital signal
processor, or PCI DSP, controller products, which provide special effects
processing and allow PC gamers to perceive sound as coming from various points
around them in a 3D space, sound equalizers, acoustic echo cancellation for
exceptional Internet audio and acceleration for Microsoft Direct Sound and
other interfaces such as A3D and EAX. Customers include Apple, Creative
Technologies, Dell, Hewlett Packard and IBM.

                                       2
<PAGE>


  The following Computer Audio products are expected to be the most important
in the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 Descriptions                        Key Features                   Status
 ---------------------- -------------------------------------   ---------------
 <C>                    <S>                                     <C>
 Audio Codecs           Analog-to-digital and digital-to-       In production.
                        analog converters for PC and computer
                        workstation audio. Multiple products
                        (AC-97, I2S and other serial
                        formats).

 ISA Audio Codecs       High-integration ISA bus PC audio       In production.
                        controllers. Highest audio quality,
                        Sound Blaster and FM synthesis with
                        Optional 3D audio effects. Multiple
                        products.

 DSP with Integrated    Special effects digital signal          In production.
 High Performance Codec processors.

 PCI Audio Controllers  High-integration PCI bus PC audio       In production.
                        controllers. Range of low-cost to
                        high-performance DSP-based solutions.
                        DSP solutions offer advanced audio
                        processing such as 3D positioning for
                        games, wavetable music synthesis &
                        sound equalization. Multiple
                        products.

 Next Generation        Low power analog-to-digital and         In development.
 Audio Codecs           digital-to-analog converters for PC
                        and computer workstation audio.
                        Multiple products based on next
                        generation formats.

Consumer Audio Products Division

  The Consumer Audio Division currently offers over 75 products for the
consumer and professional/automotive audio markets. We supply products for the
high-fidelity audio market including analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog
converters, codecs and a family of DSP-based audio decoders that support the
major audio standards such as Dolby AC-3, AAC, DTS, 5.1 Channel MPEG audio
decoding, THX and other effects processing. The product applications include
audio/video amplifiers, set-top audio decoders, digital audio tapes, MP3(TM)
players, CD players, powered speakers, DVD players and video CD players.
Customers include Sony, Harman Kardon, Kenwood, Nokia, Pace, and Panasonic.

  Our professional/automotive product line includes analog-to-digital and
digital-to-analog converters and digital audio transmitters, transceivers and
receivers, and DSP-based audio solutions. Product applications include high-
end professional recording equipment, high performance digital mixing
consoles, special effects digital signal processors and automotive stereo
systems. The following products are expected to be the most important in the
near term:

<CAPTION>
 Descriptions                        Key Features                   Status
 ---------------------- -------------------------------------   ---------------
 <C>                    <S>                                     <C>
 Audio Codecs           Analog-to-digital and digital-to-       In production.
                        analog converters for consumer audio
                        equipment and professional audio
                        equipment.

 Multi-Standard,        Home entertainment systems meeting      In production.
 Multi-Channel          multiple popular standards (Dolby,
 Audio Decoders         AAC, Digital Theatre Systems, MPEG-2)
                        with single-chip solutions.

 Analog-to-Digital,     Consumer applications such as A/V       In production.
 Digital-to-Analog      equipment, DVD players, Set-top
 Converters             boxes, CD mini disc & MP3(TM)
                        players, high end professional
                        recording equipment, high performance
                        digital mixing consoles.

 High Performance       High performance digital mixing         In production.
 Sample Rate Converters consoles, CD-R players, professional
                        audio recording equipment
</TABLE>

                                       3
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 Descriptions                        Key Features                   Status
 ---------------------- -------------------------------------   ---------------
 <C>                    <S>                                     <C>
 DSP with Integrated    Special effects digital signal          In production.
 High Performance Codec processors.

 Digital Audio          Consumer and professional               In production.
 interface products     applications including A/V equipment,
                        effects processors, mixing consoles,
                        and digital speaker systems.

 High efficiency        Low power converters and high power     In development.
 PWM converters         amplifiers for consumer, automotive,
 and power amplifiers   and professional systems.

Precision Data Conversion

  The Precision Data Conversion business is comprised of the Data Acquisition
and Communications product lines.

 Data Acquisition

  We design, manufacture and market analog, digital and mixed-signal
integrated circuits for data acquisition, instrumentation and imaging
applications. Our Crystal brand is associated with the most high-performance
mixed-signal and signal processing solutions for these markets. Our broad line
of analog-to-digital converters consist of general-purpose and low-frequency
measurement devices. These devices use patented self-calibration techniques
with delta sigma, successive approximation and pipelined architectures to
improve accuracy and reduce system-level cost.

  In addition to supporting a discrete product family, our mixed-signal
expertise design techniques are applied to IC solutions across our product
line.

  Our data acquisition product family includes more than 100 products used in
industrial automation, instrumentation, medical, military and geophysical
applications. Our customers include National Instruments, Rockwell Automation
and Schlumberger.

 Communications

  We design, manufacture and market semiconductor products that enable
Ethernet solutions for use in emerging broadband communication systems. Our
embedded Ethernet controller products are used in a variety of applications
including products that provide broadband high-speed Internet access such as
digital cable set-top boxes, cable modems and ADSL modem systems, as well as
Voice-over-internet-protocol, or VOIP, telephony systems, Ethernet switch
systems, and other embedded system applications.

  In addition, we develop and market integrated circuit products that provide
telecommunication line interface solutions for telecommunications and data
communications equipment. The following communications products are expected
to be the most important in the near term:

<CAPTION>
 Descriptions                        Key Features                   Status
 ---------------------- -------------------------------------   ---------------
 <C>                    <S>                                     <C>
 Embedded Ethernet      Highest level of integration,           In production.
 Controllers            simplified design of 10BASE-T and
                        10/100 local area network controllers
                        and single and multi-channel analog
                        front ends for motherboards,
                        interface cards and network
                        equipment. Multiple products.

 Telecom T1/E1 Line     Broad family of high-performance,       In production.
 Interface Controllers  mixed-signal devices for interfacing
                        network equipment and end-user
                        equipment to T1 and E1 lines.
                        Multiple products.
</TABLE>

                                       4
<PAGE>

INTERNET SOLUTIONS BUSINESS GROUP

  Our Internet line of products provides solutions for optical storage and
embedded processor applications.

OPTICAL STORAGE

  We supply integrated circuits that perform key electronics functions in
advanced optical disc drives. We entered the optical storage market in fiscal
1995 with a CD-ROM decoder product, followed by three more generations of CD-
ROM decoders with read speeds of up to 45x. In fiscal 1997, we introduced our
first CD-R/CD-RW encoder/decoder products and are currently on our fourth
generation, supporting up to 16x write and 48x read speeds. We also provide
integrated circuits for the DVD drive electronics market.

We currently sell products to Sony in the optical storage market. The
following optical storage products are expected to be the most important in
the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONS                        KEY FEATURES                   STATUS
 ----------------------- ------------------------------------   --------------
 <C>                     <S>                                    <C>
 ATAPI CD-R/RW           Up to 16x write and 48x read speeds.   In production.
 (Recordable/Rewritable) High-speed ATAPI Ultra DMA 33 host
 Encoder/Decoder.        transfer. Automated architecture and
                         ECC performance. Multiple products.

 Integrated DVD Drive    Integrated DVD Drive Electronics,      Sampling.
 Manager                 incorporating partial response
                         maximum likelihood, or PRML, Read
                         Channel, servo control and decoder
                         functions for DVD-ROM and DVD-Player
                         applications.
</TABLE>

EMBEDDED PROCESSORS

  During fiscal 1999, we created the Embedded Processor Division to develop,
manufacture, and market highly integrated, system-on-chip, or SOC, solutions
for several emerging applications through the incorporation of our system
peripherals and mixed signal components with CPU cores licensed from ARM Ltd.
The division's focus is on the Application Specific Standard Product (ASSP)
device category offering products in the areas of handheld information
appliances, industrial computing systems, portable digital audio solutions,
and network and Internet computing devices.

  In fiscal 2000, we introduced the Maverick brand of market specific
processors, or MSP(TM) specifically targeting personal digital assistants, or
PDA, handheld digital audio players, and Internet access appliances, such as
the electronic book or smartphone. These products are the industry's first
chips to support both MP3(TM) and Microsoft's Windows Media Audio. With the
Maverick line, we have already become a leading supplier of Internet audio
SOC's with several major design wins. The Maverick family also addresses the
issue of content security for the Internet audio market by embedding
InterTrust Technologies digital rights management, or DRM, software on the
chip, allowing the music industry to pursue the Internet as a secure method of
distribution. Maverick customers include S3/Diamond Multimedia, Creative
Technologies, and IdeaGrove. We also have products designed for low-cost,
Internet terminals, screen phones and game boxes. These products are currently
targeted at European markets and enable inexpensive Internet access for a
broad range of consumers through the television. Major customers include Alba
plc and Ravisent Technologies.

The following embedded processor products are expected to be the most
important in the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONS                        KEY FEATURES                    STATUS
 --------------------- ---------------------------------------   --------------
 <C>                   <S>                                       <C>
 High-performance      Highly integrated 32-bit ARM RISC         In production.
 System-on-Chip with   processor core with advanced peripheral
 CRT/LCD Controller    functions for Internet-enabled
                       appliances, such as set-top boxes,
                       screen-phones and game boxes that are
                       wall outlet based. Multiple products.

 High performance, low Integrated ARM 720T processor core with   In production
 power, System-on-Chip LCD and DRAM controllers, USB             and Sampling.
 with LCD controller   interface, Digital Audio Interface, and
                       DRM software. Used in handheld digital
                       audio player, PDA, and Internet access
                       appliance applications for portable,
                       battery powered devices. Multiple
                       products including Maverick(TM) family.
</TABLE>


                                       5
<PAGE>

MAGNETIC STORAGE BUSINESS GROUP

  We supply integrated circuits that perform the key electronics functions
contained in advanced magnetic and removable disk drives. In fiscal 1999, we
introduced the industry's first integration of a hard disk controller, a read
channel and a microcontroller ("3Ci"), offering extremely high integration, as
well as the industry's first open architecture firmware solution embodying the
ARM-enabled microprocessor. The open architecture model was further advanced
during the year by the collaborative development of the ARM9E microcontroller
with ARM and Lucent Microelectronics, with a goal of providing software
compatible solutions from two of the major suppliers of hard disk
microelectronics. In fiscal 2000 we announced that Fujitsu had designed the
3Ci integrated platform into its XV10 family of high volume desktop hard disk
drives. In addition, we introduced our second generation 3Ci solution
implemented in 0.25 micron technology, further strengthening our lead over our
competitors for integrated drive electronics solutions. Multiple customers are
evaluating the second-generation 3Ci product and related derivatives. Our
magnetic storage customers during fiscal 2000 included Fujitsu, Hitachi, and
Western Digital. The following magnetic storage products are expected to be
the most important in the near term:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 Descriptions                    Key Features                    Status
 -------------------- ---------------------------------   ---------------------
 <C>                  <S>                                 <C>
 Advanced             Advanced data handling and error-   In production
 Architecture PC AT-  detection/correction capabilities   (UDMA33/66)
 UDMA33/66/100        for data integrity in high-         and sampling
 Disk Controllers and performance hard disk drives.       (UDMA 100).
 IEEE1394 Disk        Multiple products.
 Controllers

 Digital PRML         Single-chip digital read/write      In production
 Read/Write           channel solutions. Advanced         (450Mbits/s) and
 Channels             digital signal processing           sampling
                      algorithms allow more data per      (550Mbits/s).
                      disk. Multiple products.

 Single-chip Drive    Single-chip open architecture       In production
 Electronics Platform electronics solution                (330Mbits/s UDMA66)
 (3CI)                incorporating the PRML Read         Sampling
                      Channel, PC AT UDMA Disk            (450Mbits/s UDMA100).
                      Controller, ARM-enabled 32-bit
                      RISC processor, micro-DSP, ROM,
                      RAM and Servo Logic.
</TABLE>


Manufacturing

  Historically, we relied upon merchant wafers manufactured by outside
suppliers for our wafer manufacturing needs. In much of 1994 and 1995, the
merchant market was unable to meet demand, and our merchant wafer suppliers
sought to limit the proportion of wafers they sold to any single customer,
which further restricted our ability to buy wafers. Wafer shortages increased
our supply costs and at times caused us difficulties in meeting the market
demand for our own products. In response to our rapid growth, and to
historical and anticipated supply shortages, we began pursuing a strategy to
expand our wafer supply sources by taking direct ownership interests in wafer
manufacturing joint ventures. In 1994, we joined with International Business
Machines Corporation ("IBM") to form MiCRUS, a manufacturing joint venture, to
produce wafers for both companies. MiCRUS began operations in 1995. In July
1996, we joined with Lucent Technologies, Inc. ("Lucent") to form Cirent
Semiconductor ("Cirent"), a manufacturing joint venture, to produce wafers for
both companies. Cirent began operations in 1997. In addition, during the time
that we were partners in the joint ventures, we continued to rely on merchant
wafer suppliers for a portion of our wafer requirements. During fiscal 1999,
we assessed our manufacturing capacity needs and evaluated the carrying value
of the assets recorded in connection with both the MiCRUS and Cirent joint
ventures. The result of this evaluation in conjunction with the restructuring
of operations to focus on the analog, Internet and magnetic storage business
groups is that we wrote-off our MiCRUS and Cirent related assets and divested
our interests in those manufacturing joint ventures. Those

                                       6
<PAGE>

actions resulted in fiscal 1999 asset impairment charges of $188.4 million.
Additionally, restructuring charges were incurred in fiscal 2000 and fiscal
1999 of $126.6 million ($1 million of which is included in cost of sales) and
$23.8 million, respectively. See Note 12 to the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Following these divestitures, we returned to the fabless
business model we had used previously.

  In addition to our wafer supply arrangements, we currently contract with
third party assembly vendors to package the wafer die into finished products.
We qualify and monitor assembly vendors using procedures similar in scope to
those used for wafer procurement. Assembly vendors provide fixed-cost-per-unit
pricing, as is common in the semiconductor industry.

  During fiscal 1998, we started outsourcing a substantial portion of our
production testing. Our manufacturing organization has continued to qualify
and monitor suppliers' production processes, to participate in process
development, package development and process and product characterization, to
perform mixed-signal production testing, to support R&D activities and to
maintain quality standards. As of April 25, 2000, we had approximately 33% of
our employees engaged in manufacturing-related activities.

OTHER WAFER SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS

  In fiscal 1996, we entered into a volume purchase agreement with Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (TSMC), which was amended in September
1997 and expires in December 2000. Under the agreement, we will purchase from
TSMC 50% of our wafer needs that are not filled by MiCRUS and Cirent, provided
that TSMC can meet the technological and other requirements of our customers.
TSMC is committed to supply these wafer needs.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

  To protect our products, we rely heavily on trade secret, patent, copyright,
mask work and trademark laws. We apply for patents arising from our research
and development activities and intend to continue this practice in the future
to protect our products and technologies. We presently hold 577 U.S. patents,
356 U.S. patent applications pending, and various corresponding international
patents and applications. We have also licensed a variety of technologies
important to our business from outside parties to complement our own research
and development efforts.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

  We concentrate our research and development efforts on the design and
development of new products for each market and on the continued enhancement
of our design automation tools. Product-oriented research and development
efforts are organized along the Analog, Internet and Magnetic Storage Business
Groups. We also fund certain advanced process technology development as well
as other emerging product opportunities. Expenditures for research and
development in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $111.8 million (excluding
acquired in-process research and development expenses of $8.0 million in
fiscal year 2000), $130.3 million and $179.6 million, respectively. As of
April 25, 2000, we had approximately 36% of our employees engaged in research
and development activities. Our future success is highly dependent upon our
ability to develop complex new products, to transfer new products to
production in a timely fashion, to introduce them to the marketplace ahead of
the competition and to have them selected for design into products of leading
systems manufacturers.

COMPETITION

  Markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect that
competition will increase. We compete with other semiconductor suppliers who
offer standard semiconductors, application-specific integrated circuits and
fully customized integrated circuits, including both chip and board-level
products. A few customers also develop integrated circuits that compete with
our products. Our competitive strategy has been to provide lower-cost versions
of existing products and new, more advanced products for customers' new
designs.

                                       7
<PAGE>

  While no single company competes with us in all of our product lines, we
face significant competition in each of our product lines. We expect to face
additional competition from new entrants in each of our markets, which may
include both large domestic and international semiconductor manufacturers and
smaller, emerging companies.

  The principal competitive factors in our markets include time to market;
quality of hardware/software design and end-market systems expertise; price;
product benefits that are characterized by performance, features, quality and
compatibility with standards; access to advanced process and packaging
technologies at competitive prices; and sales and technical support.

  Competition typically occurs at the design stage, where the customer
evaluates alternative design approaches that require integrated circuits.
Because our products have not been available from second sources, we generally
do not face direct competition in selling our products to a customer once our
integrated circuits have been designed into that customer's system.
Nevertheless, because of shortened product life cycles and even shorter
design-in cycles, our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to
achieve design wins in next-generation systems. In the event that competitors
succeed in supplanting our products, our market share may not be sustainable
and net sales, gross margin and earnings would be adversely affected.

SALES, MARKETING AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT

  Our products are sold worldwide, and historically 50-75% of revenues have
come from shipments to overseas destinations. We maintain a worldwide sales
force with a matrixed organization, which is intended to provide centralized
coordination of strategic accounts, territory-based local support and coverage
of smaller customers, and specialized selling of product lines with unique
customer bases.

  The domestic sales force includes a network of regional direct sales offices
located in California, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Oregon, and
Texas. International sales offices and organizations are located in Taiwan,
Japan, Singapore, Korea, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the
Netherlands and Barbados. We supplement our direct sales force with sales
representative organizations and distributors. Technical support staff are
located at the sales offices and also at our facilities in Fremont,
California; Broomfield, Colorado; Austin, Texas and Nashua, New Hampshire.

  Export sales information is incorporated by reference from the section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" in Part II.

BACKLOG

  Sales are made primarily pursuant to standard short-term purchase orders for
delivery of standard products. The quantity actually ordered by the customer,
as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised to reflect changes
in the customer's needs. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog at any given
time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenues.

EMPLOYEES

  As of April 25, 2000, we had approximately 1,255 full-time equivalent
employees, of whom 36% were engaged in research and product development, 31%
in sales, marketing, general and administrative and 33% in manufacturing. Our
future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract,
retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and
management personnel. Due to the highly competitive nature of the marketplace
that we operate in, we may from time to time lose key employees to certain of
our competitors. We have been able to hire qualified personnel in the past to
fill open positions created by such occurrences although there can be no
assurance that we will be able to do this in the future. None of our employees
is represented by any collective bargaining agreements.

                                       8
<PAGE>

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  The following sets forth certain information with regard to executive
officers of Cirrus Logic, Inc. (ages are as of April 25, 2000):

  David D. French (age 43) joined the Company in June 1998 as President and
Chief Operating Officer, and assumed additional duties with his appointment as
Chief Executive Officer in February 1999. As President & CEO, French oversees
worldwide operations and corporate functions. Formerly a Vice President and
General Manager for Analog Devices, French has worked in the semiconductor
industry for more than 20 years, mostly as a manager of businesses focused on
embedded applications. Prior to joining Analog Devices in 1988, French held
management posts at Texas Instruments and Fairchild Semiconductor.

  Patrick V. Boudreau (age 59) joined the Company in October 1996 as Senior
Vice President, Human Resources. He was Vice President, Human Resources for
Fujitsu Microelectronics from 1995 to 1996. From 1989 to 1995, he was
President of P.V.B. Associates, a management consulting and executive search
firm, as well as Senior Vice President of Lazer-Tron Corporation.

  Jason Carlson (age 38) joined the Company in January 2000 as Vice President
and General Manager of the newly formed Consumer Audio Products Division.
Prior to joining Cirrus, he was President and CEO of AudioLogic, Inc., a
technology development company focused on proprietary digital signal
processing and pulse width modulation for audio applications which the Company
acquired in July 1999. Prior to AudioLogic, he was a co-founder of ReSound
Corp., a hearing health care products manufacturer. At ReSound he held various
management positions.

  Robert V. Dickinson (age 58) has been Vice President and General Manager of
the Optical Storage Division since August 1999. He joined the Company in
December 1992 as Vice President, Japan Business Development and subsequently
served as President, Cirrus Logic K.K., President, Graphics Company and Vice
President, Quality and Customer Satisfaction. Prior to joining the Company he
held division general management positions at Western Digital, Zilog and
Burroughs and was President and CEO of two startup companies, Mouse Systems
and Verticom.

  Craig Ensley (age 50) was appointed Vice President, Corporate Marketing in
March 1999. He was Vice President and General Manager, Flat Panel Electronics
Division from April 1997 to February 1999. Previously he served as Vice
President and General Manager of the Computer Products Division of our
subsidiary, Crystal Semiconductor Corporation from 1993. He joined Crystal in
May 1986 as Vice President, Marketing. Prior to joining Crystal he was the
Director of Marketing for the Semiconductor Division of Rockwell International
where he had worked for 12 years.

  Keith Essency (age 53) joined the Company in July 1999 as Vice President and
General Manager of the Computer Audio Products Division. Prior to joining the
Company, he was the Operations Manager of Motorola Semiconductor Product
Sector's Video Communications Solutions and as Operations Manager, DSP
Infrastructure Products.

  Robert W. Fay (age 53) is Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
Treasurer, and Corporate Secretary. He joined the company in November of 1999
as Vice President of Finance. Prior to joining the Company, he worked at
Harris Corporation, most recently as its Vice President -- Corporate
Controller and Vice President -- Treasurer and Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer for that Company's semiconductor sector.

  Terry Leeder (age 51) joined Cirrus Logic as Vice President, Worldwide Sales
in June 1999. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Vice President,
Marketing, Applications and Japan Sales at Power Integrations, Inc. Most
recently, he was President and CEO of Medianix Semiconductor, Inc., a
manufacturer of application-specific DSP integrated circuits.

  Matthew R. Perry, Ph.D. (age 37) is Vice President and General Manager of
the Embedded Processors Division. He joined the Company in December 1995 as
Manager, Strategic Planning and Business Development.

                                       9
<PAGE>

He was Director, Marketing from August 1996 through May 1997, Sr. Director,
Engineering from May 1997 though January 1998 and Vice President, Strategic
Marketing from January 1998 through May 1998.
