Item 1.      Business

General 

     Diodes Incorporated (the “Company”), a Delaware corporation, manufactures, sells and distributes discrete semiconductors worldwide, primarily to manufacturers in the communications, computing, industrial, consumer electronics and automotive markets, and to distributors of electronic components to end-customers in these markets. The Company’s broad product line includes high-density diode and transistor arrays in ultra-miniature surface-mount packages, as well as silicon wafers used in manufacturing these products. Technologies include high-density diode and transistor arrays in multi-pin surface-mount packages; Powermite®3, high-performance surface-mount packages; performance Schottkys, switching and rectifier diodes; single and dual pre-biased transistors; performance tight tolerance and low current zener diodes; subminiature surface-mount packages; transient voltage suppressors (TVS and TSPD); small signal transistors and MOSFETs; and standard, fast, ultra-fast, and super-fast rectifiers. 

     To rapidly respond to the demands of the global marketplace, the Company continues to increase its investment in research and development, expand its product portfolio and closely control product quality and time-to-market. The Company is shifting development priorities toward specialized configurations, such as high-density array devices, and introducing a range of new products that improve the trade-off between size, performance and power consumption for surface-mount packages, such as the Company’s BAT750 Schottky rectifier and SOT-523 product lines. These product lines are designed for battery-powered and handheld applications, such as those used in the computer and communications industries; specifically, wireless devices, notebooks, flat panel displays, digital cameras, mobile handsets, set top boxes, as well as DC to DC conversion and automotive electronic applications. 

     In addition to the Company’s corporate headquarters in Westlake Village, California, which provides sales, marketing, engineering, logistics and warehousing functions, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Diodes Taiwan Corporation, Ltd. (“Diodes-Taiwan”), maintains a sales, engineering and purchasing facility in Taipei, Taiwan. The Company also has a 95% interest in Shanghai KaiHong Electronics Co., Ltd. (“Diodes-China” or “KaiHong”), a manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China, and offices in Shanghai and Shenzhen, China. In March 2002, the Company opened a sales, warehousing and logistics subsidiary in Hong Kong (“Diodes-Hong Kong”). In addition, in December 2000, the Company acquired FabTech Incorporated (“Diodes-FabTech” or “FabTech”), a silicon wafer manufacturer located near Kansas City, Missouri. Offices in Toulouse, France and Hattenheim, Germany support the Company’s European sales expansion. 

     Lite-On Semiconductor Corporation (“LSC”), formerly Lite-On Power Semiconductor Corporation (“LPSC”), is the Company’s largest stockholder, holding approximately 35% of the outstanding shares. LSC is a member of The Lite-On Group of companies of the Republic of China. The Lite-On Group, with worldwide sales of approximately $4.5 billion, is a leading manufacturer of power semiconductors, computer peripherals, and communication products. In December 2000, LPSC merged with Dyna Image Corporation of Taipei, Taiwan, the world’s largest contact image sensor (“CIS”) manufacturer. CISs are primarily used in fax machines, scanners and copy machines. C.H. Chen, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, is Vice Chairman of the combined company, which is called LSC. The Company sells product to, and purchases product from, LSC. All such transactions are on terms no less favorable to the Company than could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties (see “Related Parties”). 

     The discrete semiconductor industry has historically been subject to severe pricing pressures. At times, although manufacturing costs have decreased, excess manufacturing capacity and over-inventory have caused selling prices to decrease to a greater extent than manufacturing costs. To compete in this highly competitive industry, the Company has committed substantial new resources to the development of proprietary products, the further development and implementation of sales and marketing functions, and the expansion of manufacturing capabilities. Emphasizing its focus on customer service, the Company has added additional sales personnel and programs, primarily in Asia, and most recently in Europe. In order to meet customers’ needs at the design stage of end-product development, the Company also continues to employ additional applications engineers who work directly with customers to assist them in “designing in” the correct products to produce optimum results. Regional sales managers, working closely with manufacturers’ representative firms and distributors, have also been added to help satisfy customers’ requirements. In addition, the Company continues to develop relationships with major distributors who inventory and sell the Company’s products. 

End Markets 

      The majority of the Company’s products are sold to customers in the consumer electronics, computing and peripherals, industrial, communications, and automotive markets, and to distributors of electronic components to end-

2 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

customers in these markets. As of December 31, 2003, the percentages of total revenues from these markets were 30%, 26%, 23%, 14%, and 7%, respectively. 

      The following table lists the end-markets served and some of the applications in which the Company’s products are used: 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Markets Served End-product Applications 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Set-top Boxes (cable/DSS), Game Consoles, Smart 
Consumer Electronics Appliances, MP3, Digital Cameras, Phones, Caller ID 
  Boxes, Answering Machines, Personal Medical Devices 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Computers and Peripherals Notebooks, LCD/TFT Displays, Motherboards, 
  PDAs/Pocket PCs, Scanners, Servers, NICs, Hard Drives 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Industrial Ballast Lighting, Power Supplies, DC-DC Conversion, 
  Security/Access Systems, Motor Controls, HVAC 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Communications Gateways, Routers, Switches, Hubs, Fiber Optics, 
  Wireless, Ethernet, Power/Phone Line Networks 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Automotive Comfort Controls, Audio/Video Players, GPS Navigation, 
  Safety, Security, Satellite Radios, Engine Control 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

      Because of its diversified end-markets and applications, the Company feels it is better protected from competitive pressures and market fluctuations. 

Strategy 

      The Company’s business strategy is to become a leading vertically-integrated manufacturer and supplier of discrete semiconductors, to expand the geographic reach of its sales organization into high growth and/or under serviced markets, and to pursue manufacturing efficiency across its product lines. 

    Vertical Integration 

     The Company intends to control the manufacturing and manage the distribution process, from product concept to manufacturing, packaging, and distribution. The anticipated benefits to this strategy include: 

Better control of product quality;

Faster time-to-market for new products;

Ability to customize devices to customer requirements;

Ability to develop and market devices that are differentiated in the marketplace with proprietary processes and designs; and

Improved access to wafers and devices in limited supply conditions.

     The Company believes that this strategy will enable it to develop stronger relationships with existing customers and distributors, gain new customers and enter new markets, shift its sales mix to include higher margin devices, and create greater differentiation for the Diodes brand. 

     In order to become a vertically integrated manufacturer and supplier, the Company integrates six areas of operations: sales, marketing, product development, wafer foundry, package development, and assembly/testing. 

     Historically, discrete semiconductors have been characterized by a slower rate of innovation and lower value-added than integrated circuits (“ICs”). However, the Company believes that changes in the consumer electronics, communications and computing industries have created a need for renewed innovation in discrete semiconductor technology. The proliferation of mobile, battery-powered devices has placed a premium on smaller size and lower energy consumption. The Company’s product development efforts are focused on devices that reduce size and power consumption, increase performance and simplify board design. 

     In December 2000, the Company acquired FabTech Incorporated in order to develop higher-technology products that command higher profit margins, as well as to fulfill its silicon wafer requirements. Diodes-FabTech has the manufacturing equipment, facilities and technology to produce finished wafers ready for assembly, as well as the experienced engineering team required to develop higher technology products. These new high-technology products are widening the Company’s product line while increasing its value to customers. 

3 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents 
     The Company continues to increase its rate of new product introductions and has developed a number of products that it believes to be differentiated in the marketplace. While many competitors can devote vastly greater resources to research and development activities, the Company believes that its product focus, customer-driven development approach and rapid development cycle will enable it to develop products that provide higher value to its customers. The Company’s research and development activities are oriented towards improving on industry standard devices at the process, wafer and packaging level. In addition, the Company’s applications engineers work with customers to develop applications specific packaging and device configurations to meet their specific needs. 

    Expanded Geographical Reach 

      In addition to becoming a vertically integrated manufacturer and supplier, the Company intends to continue to expand its existing sales force in Asia and Europe. The Company significantly expanded its Asian sales force to capture market share in Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, Singapore and other Southeast Asia markets, as well as Korea. The Company also is developing sales channels in Europe to capture market share in countries such as England, France, Germany, Italy and Israel, among others. The Company targets original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) directly, as well as leveraging its expanded distribution network. 

    Manufacturing Efficiencies 

     In 2003, the Company invested approximately $12.5 million in plant and equipment at its Diodes-China manufacturing facility, bringing the total amount invested there to approximately $62.4 million. The Company will continue to invest in Diodes-China as new packaging opportunities arise. Diodes-China is the Company’s packaging and testing facility in Mainland China. Diodes-China uses chips or die from silicon wafers and manufactures them into various packaged finished devices. 

Products 

     While technology in the semiconductor industry is ever changing, the Company has traditionally sold mature products. But the additions of state-of-the-art surface-mount manufacturing capability at Diodes-China and our wafer fabrication facility, Diodes-FabTech, have enabled the Company to advance technologically with the industry leaders, and to move ahead in technical advances in both silicon technology and product implementation. These new technologies will offer higher profit and growth potential. 

        Product Technology 

     Semiconductors come in two basic configurations: discrete semiconductors and integrated circuits (“ICs”). The Company is engaged in the manufacture, sale, and distribution of discrete semiconductors, which are fixed-function components such as: 

Schottky Rectifiers Standard Recovery Rectifiers Transient Voltage Suppressors (“TVS”) 
Schottky Diodes Bridge Rectifiers NPN Transistors 
Super-Fast & Ultra-Fast Recovery Rectifiers Switching Diodes PNP Transistors 
Fast Recovery Rectifiers Zener Diodes MOSFET - N-Channel 
MOSFET - P-Channel     

     In terms of function, ICs are far more complex than discrete semiconductors. They are multi-function devices of the sort found in computer memory boards and central processing units. ICs, characterized by rapid changes in both production and application, and the desire to put ever-more intelligence into ever-smaller packages, have required the development of manufacturing techniques that are highly sophisticated and expensive. 

     Discrete semiconductors, which effectively tie integrated circuits to their surrounding environments and enable them to work, come in hundreds of permutations and vary according to voltage, current, power handling capability and switching speed. In a standard industry classification, those discrete semiconductors operating at less than one watt are referred to as low-power semiconductors, while those operating at greater than one watt are termed power semiconductors. Both types of semiconductors are found in a wide assortment of commercial instrumentation and communication equipment, in consumer products like televisions and telephones, and in automotive, computer and industrial electronic products. 

     Arrays bridge the gap between discrete semiconductors and ICs. Arrays consist of more than one discrete semiconductor housed in a single package. The Company added about 100 new 6-pin surface mount array part numbers to 

4 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents 
its semiconductor offerings. With the flexibility of domestic engineering and fast-reaction manufacturing facilities in the Far East, the Company continues to find interest in its offering of Application Specific Multi-Chip Circuit arrays. 

     Silicon wafers are the basic raw material used in producing all types of semiconductors. Many highly sophisticated and tightly controlled processes are used to develop finished semiconductor wafers from the raw starting material. They include high precision lapping and polishing, photo lithography, chemical vapor deposition of epitaxy, doping and oxidation processes, plasma deposition, ion implantation, metal plating, sintering and sputtering, chemical etching, annealing and reaction. Finished wafers are then cut into very small dice in order to be assembled into the appropriate surface mount or leaded package at the semiconductor assembly factory. 

   Product Packaging 

     Almost as important as the technology of the discrete component, is the component packaging. The industry trend is to fit discrete components into ever-smaller and more efficient surface-mount packages. Smaller packaging provides a reduction in board space, height, and weight and is well suited for battery-powered, hand-held and wireless applications such as cellular phones, notebook and palmtop computers and accessories where space is at a premium. The objective is to fit the same functionality and power handling features into smaller packages. The Company’s packaging capabilities include: 

Surface-mount:     
SOT-23 SOT-523 SMA 
SOT-25 SOD-523 SMB 
SOT-26 SC-59 SMC 
SOT-143   DPAK 
SOT-563   D2PAK 
SOD-123   Powermite3 
SOD-323     
SOT-363     
      
Leaded:     
DO-15 DO-201AD A-405 
DO-35 TO-220AC TO-3P 
DO-41 TO-220AB Numerous Bridge Rectifier Packages 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

     The Company sells its products through its own internal and regional sales departments, as well as through representatives and distributors. The Company’s sales team, aided by the sales force of approximately 25 independent sales representative firms located throughout North America, Asia, and most recently Europe, supplies approximately 102 OEM accounts. In 2003, OEM customers accounted for approximately 69% of the Company’s sales, compared to approximately 69% in 2002 and 66% in 2001. OEM customers range from small, privately held electronics companies to Fortune 500 companies. 

     The Company’s major OEM customers include industry leaders such as Intel Corporation, Cisco Systems Incorporated, Sony Corporation, Nortel Networks Corporation, Delphi Automotive, Bose Corporation, Scientific Atlanta Incorporated, Samsung Electronics, Asustek Computer, Inc., Quanta and LG Electronics, Inc. The Company further supplies approximately 40 distributors (31% of 2003 sales), who collectively sell to approximately 10,000 customers on the Company’s behalf. The Company’s worldwide distribution network includes Arrow Electronics, Inc., Avnet, Inc., Digi-Key Corporation, Future Electronics Ltd., Jaco Electronics, Inc., Reptron Electronics, Inc., and All American Semiconductor, Inc., among others. The Company is not dependent on any one customer to support its level of sales. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, only one OEM customer, LSC (see “Related Parties”), accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s sales, while the largest distributor accounted for 6% of sales. The twenty largest customers accounted, in total, for approximately 63% of the Company’s sales in 2003, compared to 61% in 2002. 

     The Company sells its products primarily in North America, the Far East, and Europe, both directly to end users and through electronic component distributors. In 2003, approximately 41%, 56%, and 3% of the Company’s products were sold in North America, the Far East, and Europe, respectively, compared to 49%, 48%, and 2% in 2002, respectively. See Note 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of the Company’s geographic and segment information. The Company expects an increase in the percentage of sales in the Far East as the Company significantly increased its sales presence there and believes there is greater potential to increase market share in that region due to the expanding base of electronic product manufacturers. 

5 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents 
     Through Diodes-Taiwan, the Company employs a general manager who acts as the Far East purchasing liaison with respect to product procurement from other vendors located in the Far East. Diodes-Taiwan also sells product to customers in Taiwan, Korea, and Singapore, among other Asia-Pacific countries. 

     In June 2001, the Company expanded its sales force into Europe with a regional manager and distribution network to serve the UK, France, Germany, Italy and Israel, among others. 

     In March 2002, the Company opened a sales, warehousing, and logistics office in Hong Kong to strengthen its competitive market position in Asia, as well as to benefit from favorable tax rates. Because more communication and personal computer companies are moving to China, having sales and warehousing directly out of Hong Kong enables the Company to reduce lead times on orders and better service to this growing customer base. 

     Through ongoing sales and customer service efforts, the Company continues to develop business relationships with companies who are considered leaders in their respective market segments. The Company’s marketing efforts also have benefited from an ongoing program to develop strategic alliances with manufacturers, such as LSC, among others, to better control its destiny in terms of product technology, quality and especially the availability of the products it sells. 

     Over the years, there has been a tendency among some larger manufacturers to limit or de-emphasize the production and marketing of discrete components in favor of integrated and hybrid circuits. With fewer service-oriented sources of discrete components available to OEMs, the Company has captured additional market share. The Company’s products primarily include catalog items, but also include units designed to specific customer requirements. 

Manufacturing and Significant Vendors 

     Diodes-China, manufactures product for sale primarily to North America and Asia. Diodes-China’s manufacturing focuses on SOT-23 and SOD-123 products, as well as sub-miniature packages such as SOT-363, SOT-563, and SC-75. These surface-mount devices (“SMD”) are much smaller in size and are used in the computer and communications industries, for cellular phones, notebook computers, and flat-panel displays, among others. Diodes-China’s state-of-the-art facilities have been designed to develop even smaller, higher-density products as electronic industry trends to more portable and hand-held devices continue. Although Diodes-China purchases silicon wafers from FabTech, the majority are currently purchased from other wafer vendors. The Company plans to increase the number of Diodes-FabTech wafers used at Diodes-China over the next several years. 

     Acquired in December 2000 from LSC, FabTech’s wafer foundry is located in Lee’s Summit, Missouri. FabTech manufactures primarily 5-inch silicon wafers, which are the building blocks for semiconductors. FabTech has full foundry capabilities, including processes such as silicon epitaxy, silicon oxidation, photolithography and etching, ion implantation and diffusion, low pressure and plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition, sputtered and evaporated metal deposition, wafer backgrinding, and wafer probe and ink. 

     FabTech purchases polished silicon wafers and then, by using various technologies and patents, in conjunction with many chemicals and gases, fabricates several layers on the wafers, including epitaxial silicon, ion implants, dielectrics and metals, with various patterns. Depending upon these layers and the die size (which is determined during the photolithography process and completed at the customer’s packaging site where the wafer is sawn into square or rectangular die), different types of wafers with various currents, voltages and switching speeds are produced. 

     At Diodes-China, silicon wafers are received and inspected in a highly controlled environment awaiting the assembly operation. At the first step of assembly, the wafers are mounted in a supporting ring, and using automatic machinery, the wafers are sawn with very thin, high speed diamond blades into tiny semiconductor “dice”, numbering as many as 200,000 per 5” diameter wafer. Dice are then loaded onto a handler, which automatically places the dice, one by one, onto lead frames, which are package specific, where they are bonded using various technologies to the lead frame pad. Next, automatic wire bonders make the necessary electrical connections from the die to the leads of the lead frame, using micro-thin gold wire. The fully automatic assembly machinery then molds the epoxy case around the die and lead frame to produce the desired semiconductor product. Next is the trim, form, test, mark and re-test operation. Finally the parts are placed into special carrier housings and a cover tape seals the parts in place. The taped parts are then spooled onto reels and boxed for shipment. 

     Each step of the process is precisely controlled and monitored to assure world-class quality. Samples of each device family are periodically subjected to rigorous 1,000 hour high-reliability testing to assure that the devices will meet all customers’ expectations in the most demanding applications. 

6 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

     As evidence of our total commitment to product quality and customer satisfaction, the Company has developed and continually maintains processes, procedures and standards of performance that earn our Company widely recognized quality certifications. Our corporate headquarters received official ISO 9001:2000 Certification of Registration in 1997 from Underwriters Laboratories (UL), the leading third-party certification organization in the United States and the largest in North America. Diodes-China and Diodes-Taiwan received official ISO 9001:2000 Certification of Registration from DNV in 1997. Diodes-China also earned QS-9000 and ISO 14001 certifications in 2000, validating high-level quality management in the automotive supply industry, and our compliance with official environmental standards, respectively. Diodes-FabTech received ISO 9001 certification in 1997, and QS 9000 certification with AEC-A100 Supplement in 1998 from BSI, an international standards, testing, registration and certification organization. 

     ISO 9000 certifications consist of a series of paradigms for the establishment of systems and protocols to facilitate the creation and maintenance of superior quality-control techniques. The Company’s commitment to ongoing external validation demonstrates dedication to continual reviews and renewal of our mission, strategies, operations and service levels. With its underlying premise that true product quality requires a total quality system, ISO certification is often required of vendors seeking to establish relationships with OEMs doing business in intensely competitive global markets. 

     In October 2003, the Company successfully completed the ISO compliance audit with respect to meeting the stringent criteria for the new ISO 9001:2000 standards. As part of the upgrade, Diodes expanded the scope of the ISO certification to include product design and development. The new classification reflects Diodes’ increasing focus on research and development as a means to deliver differentiated product lines that offer customers greater choice, more flexibility and measurably higher levels of performance. Diodes’ success in achieving the new standard adds an important secondary Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code to the Company’s existing certification for semiconductor devices by assigning an SIC Code covering design. 

     Meeting this standard reflects the Company’s commitment to providing the highest-quality products and services to its customers, and is an endorsement of the Company’s commitment not only to understanding and meeting customer needs, but also to enhancing customer satisfaction. Since this ISO 9001:2000 certification represents an industry-recognized level of quality, it provides customers with added confidence in their decision to partner with us. 

     All of the products sold by the Company, as well as the materials used by the Company in its manufacturing operations, are available both domestically and abroad. In 2003, the largest external supplier of products to the Company was LSC, a related party. Approximately 17% and 18% of the Company’s sales were from product manufactured by LSC in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Also, in 2003 and 2002, approximately 5% and 6%, respectively, of the Company’s sales were from product manufactured by companies owned by Xing International, the 5% minority partner in Diodes-China, and a related party. In addition, sales of products manufactured by Diodes-China and Diodes-FabTech, the Company’s manufacturing subsidiaries, were approximately 39% and 23% in 2003, respectively, versus 34% and 25% in 2002, respectively. The Company anticipates that Diodes-China will become an increasingly valuable supplier. No other manufacturer of discrete semiconductors accounted for more than 9% and 8% of the Company’s sales in 2003 and 2002, respectively. 

     The Company’s Diodes-China manufacturing facility receives wafers from FabTech, among others. Output from the FabTech facility includes wafers used in the production of Schottky barrier diodes, fast recovery epitaxial diodes (FREDs), and other widely used value-added products. Schottky barrier diodes are employed in the manufacture of the power supplies found in personal computers, telecommunications devices and other applications where high frequency, low forward voltage and fast recovery are required. 

     Until October 2000, Diodes-Taiwan manufactured product for sale to Diodes-North America and to trade customers. The Company moved its Taiwan manufacturing to China because the Taiwan manufactured products were lower technology, relatively labor intensive products, and the cost savings realized by moving the manufacturing to the Company’s qualified minority partner in Diodes-China were attractive and necessary to meet market demand. Diodes-Taiwan continues as the Company’s Asia-Pacific sales, logistics and distribution center. 

     Although the Company believes alternative sources exist for the products of any of its suppliers, the loss of any one of its principal suppliers or the loss of several suppliers in a short period of time could have a materially adverse effect on the Company until an alternate source is located and has commenced providing such products or raw materials. 

Raw Materials 

     The Company uses a variety of raw materials in its manufacturing processes, including molding compounds, lead frames, gold wire, and various other metals, chemicals and gasses, as well as finished and raw silicon wafers. Although the

7 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

raw materials are available from a number of sources, the Company’s results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if it has difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates or there are significant price increases for these raw materials. 

Competition 

     Numerous semiconductor manufacturers and distributors serve the discrete semiconductor components market, making competition intense. Some of the larger companies include Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, International Rectifier Corporation, Rohm Electronics, Phillips Electronics, On Semiconductor Corporation, and Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., many of which have greater financial, marketing, distribution, brand name recognition and other resources than the Company. Accordingly, in response to market conditions, the Company from time to time may reposition product lines or decrease prices, which may affect the Company’s profit margins on such product lines. Competitiveness in sales of the Company’s products is determined by the price and quality of the product, and the ability of the Company to provide delivery and customer service in keeping with the customers’ needs. The Company believes that its flexibility and ability to quickly adapt to customer needs affords it some competitive advantages. Nevertheless, the Company expects that competition with larger and better-funded rivals will continue to be a challenge. 

Engineering and Research and Development 

     The Company’s engineering and research and development (“R&D”) consist of customer/applications engineers and product development engineers who assist in determining the direction of the Company’s future product lines. Their primary function is to work closely with market-leading customers to further refine, expand and improve the Company’s product range within the Company’s product types and packages. In addition, customer requirements and acceptance of new package types are assessed and new, higher density and more energy-efficient packages are developed to satisfy customers’ needs. Working with customers to integrate multiple types of technologies within the same package, the Company’s applications engineers reduce the required number of components and, thus, circuit board size requirements, while increasing the component technology to a higher level. 

     Product engineers work directly with the semiconductor wafer design and process engineers at Diodes-FabTech who craft die designs needed for products that precisely match our customer’s requirements. Further, Diodes-FabTech’s R&D engineers are developing higher technology products, which are expected to grow the Company to leadership positions in our focused areas. Direct contact with the Company’s manufacturing facilities allows the manufacturing of products that are in line with current technical requirements. With the addition of FabTech, the Company has the capability to capture the customer’s electrical and packaging requirements through its customer/applications engineers and product development engineers, and then transfer those requirements to Diodes-FabTech’s R&D and engineering department, so that the customer’s requirements can be translated, designed, and manufactured with full control, even to the elemental silicon level. 

     For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, R&D expense was $2.0 million, $1.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively. As a percentage of sales, R&D expense was 1.5%, 1.3% and 0.6% for 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. The Company anticipates R&D in absolute dollars and as a percentage of sales to increase as the Company further develops proprietary technology. 

Patents 

     Patents have become increasingly more significant to our business. Developing and maintaining a competitive advantage requires that the Company pursue patent protection for innovative devices and processes, particularly those developed or in development at Diodes-FabTech. The Company currently holds five patents and has seven patents pending in technologies ranging from ruggedized Schottky devices to thirty-five hundred volt Ultra-Fast devices. To protect our intellectual property from being copied illegally by competitors, the Company will continue to aggressively pursue patent protection. 

Inventory 

     In general, the Company maintains sufficient inventories of standard products at its U.S. facility and Diodes-Taiwan and Diodes-Hong Kong facilities to permit rapid delivery of customers’ orders. In addition, the Company continuously coordinates with strategic alliances and subcontractors to support product demand. The Company implemented a program in coordination with its distributors, enabling the Company to transfer inventory from distributors to OEM customers to better manage the Company’s on-hand inventory. 

8 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

     The Company’s inventory is composed of discrete semiconductors and silicon wafers, which are, for the most part, standardized in electronic related industries. Historically, finished goods inventory turns over approximately four times annually. Due to a concentrated effort to reduce inventory, inventory turns increased to approximately 6.9 times at December 31, 2003. The Company has no special inventory or working capital requirements that are not in the ordinary course of business. 

Backlog 

     The amount of backlog to be shipped during any period is dependent upon various factors, and all orders are subject to cancellation or modification, usually with minimal or no penalty to the customer. Orders are generally booked from one to twelve months in advance of delivery. The rate of booking new orders can vary significantly from month to month. The Company and the industry as a whole are experiencing a trend towards shorter lead-times (the amount of time between the date a customer places an order and the date the customer requires shipment). The amount of backlog at any date depends upon various factors, including the timing of the receipt of orders, fluctuations in orders of existing product lines, and the introduction of any new lines. Accordingly, the Company believes that the amount of backlog at any date is not a useful measure of future sales. The Company strives to maintain proper inventory levels to support customers’ just-in-time order expectations. 

Employees 

     As of December 31, 2003, the Company employed a total of 1,087 employees. On that date, Diodes-North America had 75 full-time employees, Diodes-Taiwan and Diodes-Hong Kong had an additional 67 employees, Diodes-China had a total of 739 employees, and Diodes-FabTech had a total of 206 employees. None of the Company’s employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. 

Imports and Import Restrictions 

     During 2003, the Company’s U.S. operations, which accounted for approximately 44% of the Company’s total sales, imported substantially all of its products, of which approximately 29% were imported from Mainland China and approximately 9% from Taiwan. The balance of the imports is primarily from Germany, Japan, India, the Philippines, and Korea. As a result, the Company’s operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, but not limited to, the difficulty and expense of maintaining foreign sourcing channels, cultural and institutional barriers to trade, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions on the transfer of funds and the imposition of tariffs, political instability, transportation delays, expropriation, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including export licenses and changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding the future relationship between China and Taiwan, and other U.S. and foreign regulations that may apply to the export and import of the Company’s products, and which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Any significant disruption in the Company’s Taiwanese or Chinese sources of supply or in the Company’s relationship with its suppliers located in Taiwan or China could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

     The Company transacts business with foreign suppliers primarily in U.S. dollars. To a limited extent, and from time to time, the Company contracts in foreign currencies (e.g., a portion of the equipment purchases for the Diodes-China expansion), and, accordingly, its results of operations could be materially affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Due to the limited number of contracts denominated in foreign currencies and the complexities of currency hedges, the Company has not engaged in hedging to date. If the volume of contracts written in foreign currencies increases, and the Company does not engage in currency hedging, any substantial change in the value of such currencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Management believes that the current contracts written in foreign currencies are not significant enough to justify the costs inherent in currency hedging. 

     Imported products are also subject to U.S. customs duties and, in the ordinary course of business, the Company, from time to time, is subject to claims by the U.S. Customs Service for duties and other charges. The Company attempts to reduce the risk of doing business in foreign countries by, among other things, contracting in U.S. dollars, and, when possible, maintaining multiple sourcing of product groups from several countries. 

Related Parties 

     The Company conducts business with two related party companies, LSC (and its subsidiaries) and Xing International (and its subsidiaries). LSC, a 35% shareholder, is the Company’s largest shareholder, and Xing International is owned by the Company’s 5% joint venture partner in Diodes-China. C.H. Chen, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, and a member of the Company’s Board of Directors, is also Vice-Chairman of LSC. M.K. Lu, a member of the Company’s Board of Directors, is President of LSC, while Raymond Soong, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, is the Chairman of The Lite-On Group, a significant shareholder of LSC. 

9 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

     In 2003, the Company sold silicon wafers to LSC totaling 10.7% (13.7% in 2002) of the Company’s sales, making LSC the Company’s largest customer. Also for 2003, 17.3% (17.9% in 2002) of the Company’s sales were from discrete semiconductor products purchased from LSC, making LSC the Company’s largest outside vendor. Under a longstanding sales agreement, the Company is the exclusive North American distributor for certain LSC product lines. In addition, the Company leases warehouse space from LSC for its operations in Hong Kong. Such transactions are on terms no less favorable to the Company than could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has approved the contracts related to the transactions. 

     In December 2000, the Company acquired a wafer foundry, FabTech, Inc., from LSC. As part of the purchase price, at December 31, 2003, LSC holds a subordinated, interest-bearing note for approximately $6.3 million. In May 2002, the Company renegotiated the terms of the note to extend the payment period from two years to four years, and , as a result payments of approximately $208,000 plus interest began in July 2002. In connection with the terms of the acquisition, LSC entered into a volume purchase agreement to purchase wafers from FabTech. In addition, in accordance with the terms of the acquisition, the Company has entered into several management incentive agreements with members of FabTech’s management. The agreements provide members of FabTech’s management guaranteed annual payments as well as contingent bonuses based on the annual profitability of FabTech, subject to a maximum annual amount. Any portion of the guaranteed and contingent liability paid by FabTech is reimbursed by LSC. 

     In 2003, the Company sold silicon wafers to companies owned by Xing International totaling 1.1% (1.5% in 2002) of the Company’s sales. Also for 2003, 4.6% (5.6% in 2002) of the Company’s sales were from discrete semiconductor products purchased from companies owned by Xing International. In addition, Diodes-China leases its manufacturing facilities from, subcontracts a portion of its manufacturing process (metal plating and environmental services) to, and pays a consulting fee to Xing International. Such transactions are on terms no less favorable to the Company than could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has approved the contracts related to the transactions. 

Reporting Segment 

     For financial reporting purposes, the Company is deemed to engage in one industry segment, discrete semiconductors. See Note 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of the Company’s geographic information. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

     The Company sells product primarily through its operations in North America and Asia. See Note 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of the Company’s geographic information. 

Environmental Matters 

     We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign governmental laws, rules and regulations related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Any of these regulations could require us to acquire equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. If we were to incur substantial additional expenses, our product costs could significantly increase, thus materially affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to comply with present or future environmental laws, rules and regulations could result in fines, suspension of production or cessation of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

     In June 2000, the Company received a claim from one of its former U.S. landlords regarding potential ground-water contamination at a site in which the Company engaged in manufacturing from 1967 to 1973. A settlement is forthcoming, which the Company does not expect to have a material effect on its financial results. 

Available Information 

     Our website address is http://www.diodes.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“the SEC”). 

10 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

     To support our global customer-base, particularly in Asia and Europe, our website is language-selectable into English, Chinese, Japanese, Korean and German, giving us an effective marketing tool for world-wide markets. With its extensive online Product (Parametric) Catalog with advanced search capabilities, our website facilitates quick and easy product selection. Our website provides easy access to world-wide sales contacts and customer support, and incorporates a distributor-inventory check to provide component inventory availability and a small order desk for overnight sample fulfillment. Our website also provides access to current and complete investor financial information and corporate governance information including our Code of Business Conduct, as well as SEC filings and press releases, as well as stock quotes. 

Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 

     Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the Company’s management. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides certain “safe harbor” provisions for forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made on this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made pursuant to the Act. 

     All forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are subject to, in addition to the other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a variety of significant risks and uncertainties. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and uncertainties. Further, from time to time, information provided by the Company or statements made by its employees may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results or business conditions will not differ materially from those set forth or suggested in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below. 

Risk Factors 

   Vertical Integration 

     We are in the process of vertically integrating our business. Key elements of this strategy include (i) expanding our manufacturing capacity, (ii) establishing wafer foundry and research and development capability through the acquisition of FabTech and (iii) establishing sales, marketing, product development, package development and assembly/testing operations in company-owned facilities or through the acquisition of established contractors. We have a limited history upon which an evaluation of the prospects of our vertical integration strategy can be based. There are certain risks associated with our vertical integration strategy, including: 

difficulties associated with owning a manufacturing business, including, but not limited to, the maintenance and management of manufacturing facilities, equipment, employees and inventories and limitations on the flexibility of controlling overhead;

difficulties implementing our Enterprise Resource Planning system;

difficulties expanding our operations in the Far East and developing new operations in Europe because of the distance and differing regulatory and cultural environments;

the need for skills and techniques that are outside our traditional core expertise;

less flexibility in shifting manufacturing or supply sources from one region to another;

even when independent suppliers offer lower prices, we must continue to acquire product from our captive manufacturing facilities, which may result in having higher costs than our competitors;

difficulties developing and implementing a successful research and development team;

difficulties developing proprietary technology; and

market acceptance of our proprietary technology.

     The risks of becoming a fully integrated manufacturer are amplified in an industry-wide slowdown because of the fixed costs associated with manufacturing facilities. 

   Economic Conditions 

     The discrete segment of the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and the value of our business may decline during the “down” portion of these cycles. During recent years, we, as well as many others in our industry, experienced significant declines in the pricing of, as well as demand for, our products and lower facilities utilization. The market for discrete semiconductors may experience renewed, possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns in the future. The markets for our products depend on continued demand in the communications, computer, industrial, consumer electronic and automotive markets, and these end-markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 

11 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

   Competition 

     The discrete semiconductor industry is highly competitive. We expect intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants. Competition is based on price, product performance, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. We compete in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater resources or capabilities as it relates to financial, marketing, distribution, brand name recognition and other resources than we have and, thus, they may be better able to pursue acquisition candidates and to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. Some of our current major competitors are Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, International Rectifier Corporation, Rohm Electronics, Phillips Electronics, On Semiconductor Corporation, and Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, or competitive pressures may harm our financial condition or our operating results. 

   Foreign Operations 

     We expect revenues from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues. In addition, we maintain facilities or contracts with entities in the Philippines, Taiwan, Germany, Japan, England, India, and China, among others. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: 

changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;

trade restrictions, transportation delays, work stoppages, and economic and political instability;

changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates;

difficulties in collecting receivables and enforcing contracts;

currency exchange rate fluctuations, including, but not limited to fluctuations in the Chinese Yuan should the Chinese government decide to permit the Yuan to U.S. dollar exchange rate to fluctuate;

restrictions on the transfer of funds from foreign subsidiaries to Diodes-North America; and,

longer customer payment terms.

   Variability of Quarterly Results 

     We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, a substantial variation in net sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that the factors that influence this variability of quarterly results include: 

general economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products;

seasonality and variability in the computer and communications market and our other end markets;

the timing of our and our competitors’ new product introductions;

product obsolescence;

the scheduling, rescheduling and cancellation of large orders by our customers;

the cyclical nature of demand for our customers’ products;

our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume production at our fabrication facilities;

changes in manufacturing yields;

adverse movements in exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates; and

the availability of adequate supply commitments from our outside suppliers or subcontractors.

     Accordingly, a comparison of the Company’s results of operations from period to period is not necessarily meaningful to investors and the Company’s results of operations for any period do not necessarily indicate future performance. Variations in our quarterly results may trigger volatile changes in our stock price. 

   New Technologies 

     We cannot assure investors that we will successfully identify new product opportunities or develop and bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce package sizes, improve manufacturing yields and expand our sales. We may not be able to accomplish these goals. 

   Production 

     Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency. Our manufacturing processes require advanced and costly equipment and are continually being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our operating results also could be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity if revenues do not increase proportionately. 

12 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

   Future Acquisitions 

     As part of our business strategy, we expect to review acquisition prospects that would implement our vertical integration strategy or offer other growth opportunities. While we have no current agreements and no active negotiations underway with respect to any acquisitions, we may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. In the event of future acquisitions, we could: 

use a significant portion of our available cash;

issue equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership;

incur substantial debt;

incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown;

incur amortization expenses related to intangibles; and

incur large, immediate accounting write-offs.

     Such actions by us could harm our operating results and/or adversely influence the price of our Common Stock. 

   Integration of Acquisitions 

     During fiscal year 2000, we acquired FabTech, Inc. We may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies or product lines with our operations, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from companies we acquire include those associated with: 

unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company;

bringing the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls into conformance with our operations;

coordinating our new product and process development;

hiring additional management and other critical personnel;

increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;

difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how;

diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and

adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers.

   Backlog 

     The amount of backlog to be shipped during any period is dependent upon various factors, and all orders are subject to cancellation or modification, usually with minimal or no penalty to the customer. Orders are generally booked from one to twelve months in advance of delivery. The rate of booking new orders can vary significantly from month to month. The Company and the industry as a whole are experiencing a trend towards shorter lead-times (the amount of time between the date a customer places an order and the date the customer requires shipment). The amount of backlog at any date depends upon various factors, including the timing of the receipt of orders, fluctuations in orders of existing product lines, and the introduction of any new lines. Accordingly, the Company believes that the amount of backlog at any date is not a useful measure of future sales. The Company strives to maintain proper inventory levels to support customers’ just-in-time order expectations. 

   Product Resources 

     We sell products primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Many of these purchase orders may be revised or canceled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products without any advance purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell, or delays in selling, products after we devote significant resources to them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

   Qualified Personnel 

     Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. Personnel with the necessary expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense. We may not be able to retain existing key technical, sales, marketing and managerial employees or be 

13 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel in the future. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

   Expansion 

     Our ability to successfully offer our products in the discrete semiconductor market requires effective planning and management processes. Our past growth, and our targeted future growth, may place a significant strain on our management systems and resources, including our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. In addition, we will need to continue to train and manage our workforce worldwide. 

   Suppliers 

     Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment on a timely basis from third parties. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment in a timely manner or if the costs of materials, parts or equipment increase significantly. In addition, a significant portion of our total sales is from parts manufactured by outside vendors. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we generally use products, materials, parts and equipment available from multiple suppliers, we have a limited number of suppliers for some products, materials, parts and equipment. While we believe that alternate suppliers for these products, materials, parts and equipment are available, any interruption could materially impair our operations. 

   Environmental Regulations 

     We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign governmental laws, rules and regulations related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Any of these regulations could require us to acquire equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. If we were to incur substantial additional expenses, our product costs could significantly increase, thus materially affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to comply with present or future environmental laws, rules and regulations could result in fines, suspension of production or cessation of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

     In June 2000, the Company received a claim from one of its former U.S. landlords regarding potential ground-water contamination at a site in which the Company engaged in manufacturing from 1967 to 1973. A settlement is forthcoming, which the Company does not expect to have a material effect on its financial results. 

   Product Liability 

     One or more of our products may be found to be defective after we have already shipped such products in volume, requiring a product replacement or recall. We may also be subject to product returns, which could impose substantial costs and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products. Although we currently have product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained sufficient insurance coverage, or that we will have sufficient resources, to satisfy all possible product liability claims. 

   System Outages 

     Risks are presented by electrical or telecommunications outages, computer hacking or other general system failure. To try to manage our operations efficiently and effectively, we rely heavily on our internal information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties. Any of these systems are subject to failure. System-wide or local failures that affect our information processing could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, insurance coverage for the risks described above may be unavailable. 

   Downward Price Trends 

     Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. There is substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of using our parts. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers’ shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. Our growth and the profit margins of our products will suffer if our competitors are more successful than we are in reducing the total cost to customers of their products. 

   Obsolete Inventories 

     The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage closely our production and inventory levels. Inventory may also become obsolete because of adverse changes in end-market demand. We may in the future be adversely affected by obsolete or excess inventories which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. 

14 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

   Deferred Taxes 

     As of December 31, 2003, accumulated and undistributed earnings of Diodes-China are approximately $36.6 million, including $10.0 million of restricted earnings (which are not available for dividends). Through March 31, 2002, the Company had not recorded deferred U.S. federal or state tax liabilities (estimated to be $8.9 million as of March 31, 2002) on these cumulative earnings since the Company, at that time, considered this investment to be permanent, and had no plans or obligation to distribute all or part of that amount from China to the United States. Beginning in April 2002, the Company began to record deferred taxes on a portion of the earnings of Diodes-China in preparation of a dividend distribution. As of December 31, 2003, the Company has recorded $1.7 million in deferred taxes and has made no distributions. The Company intends to dividend $6.0 million from Diodes-China to the U.S. in 2004. It is anticipated that this transaction will not have a material effect on net income as the U.S. income taxes have already been accrued. 

     Beginning in November 2003, the Company began to record deferred taxes on a portion of the 2003 earnings of Diodes-Hong Kong in preparation of a possible dividend distribution. As of December 31, 2003, the Company has recorded $200,000 in deferred taxes and has made no distributions. 

     The Company is evaluating the need to provide additional deferred taxes for the future earnings of Diodes-China and Diodes-Hong Kong to the extent such earnings may be appropriated for distribution to the Company’s corporate office in North America, and as further investment strategies with respect to Diodes-China and Diodes-Hong Kong are determined. Should the Company’s North American cash requirements exceed the cash that is provided through the domestic operations and credit facilities, cash can be obtained from the Company’s foreign subsidiaries. However, the distribution of any un-appropriated funds to the U.S. will require the recording of income tax provisions on the U.S. entity, thus reducing net income. 

   Foreign Currency Risk 

     The Company faces exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily in Asia and, to a lesser extent, in Europe. The Company’s foreign currency risk may change over time as the level of activity in foreign markets grows and could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s financial results. Certain of the Company’s assets, including certain bank accounts and accounts receivable, and liabilities exist in non-U.S. dollar denominated currencies, which are sensitive to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. These currencies are principally the Chinese Yuan, the Taiwanese dollar, the Japanese Yen, and the Hong Kong dollar. Because of the relatively small size and nature of each individual currency exposure, the Company does not employ hedging techniques designed to mitigate foreign currency exposures. Therefore, the Company could experience currency gains and losses. 

     During the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the Chinese government resisted devaluing the Renminbi (“RMB”) Chinese currency. China is again faced with international pressure demanding the appreciation of the RMB. Should the Chinese government allow a significant RMB appreciation, and the Company not take appropriate means to offset this exposure, the effect could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s financial results. 

     Interest Rate Risk 

     The Company has credit agreements with U.S. and Far East financial institutions at interest rates equal to LIBOR or similar indices plus a negotiated margin. A significant rise in interest rates could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s cost of working capital and its interest expense. In July 2001, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement to hedge its exposure to variability in expected future cash flows resulting from interest rate risk related to a portion of its long-term debt. At December 31, 2003, the interest rate swap agreement applies to $3.3 million of the Company’s long-term debt and expires November 30, 2004. The swap contract is inversely correlated to the related hedged long-term debt and is therefore considered an effective cash flow hedge of the underlying long-term debt. The level of effectiveness of the hedge is measured by the changes in the market value of the hedged long-term debt resulting from fluctuation in interest rates. As a matter of policy, the Company does not enter into derivative transactions for trading or speculative purposes. 

   Political Risk 

     The Company has a significant portion of its assets in Mainland China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. The possibility of political conflict between these countries or with the United States could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s ability to transact business through these important business segments and to generate profits. 

15 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales 

     With respect to foreign operations, see Notes 1, 11 and 12 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 
