Item 1. Business. 

 
     For specific information about our Company, our products or the markets we serve, please visit our website at http://www.emcore.com.  The information on EMCORE’s website is not incorporated by reference into and is not made a part of this report.  All of our SEC filings are available free of charge on our website.
 
 
Company Overview


EMCORE Corporation (EMCORE), a New Jersey corporation established in 1984, offers a broad portfolio of compound semiconductor-based components and subsystems for the broadband, fiber optic, satellite, and wireless communications markets.  EMCORE continues to expand its comprehensive product portfolio to enable the transport of voice, data, and video over copper, hybrid fiber/coax (HFC), fiber, satellite, and wireless networks.  EMCORE is building upon its leading-edge compound semiconductor materials and device expertise to provide cost-effective components and subsystems for the cable television (CATV), fiber-to-the-premise, business, curb or home (FTTP), telecommunications, data and storage, satellite, and wireless communications markets. 


·   CATV and FTTP Networks - The communications industry in which we participate continues to be dynamic.  Cable operators and telephone companies compete with each other to offer the lowest price for unlimited "triple play" (voice, data, and video) communications through a single network connection.  As a market leader in radio frequency (RF) transmission over fiber products for the CATV industry, EMCORE is enabling cable companies to offer multiple forms of communications to meet the expanding demand for high-speed Internet, on-demand and interactive video, and other new services (such as Voice over IP, or VoIP).  In response to this triple play strategy from the cable companies, the telephone companies also plan to offer competing voice, data, and video services through the deployment of new fiber-based systems.  These growing applications should increase demand for EMCORE’s FTTP products and subsystems.  Our CATV and FTTP products include broadcast analog and digital fiber optic transmitters, Quadrature Amplitude Modulation (QAM) transmitters, video receivers, Passive Optical Network (PON) transceivers, avalanche photodetectors (APD), PIN (P-type, intrinsic, and N-type semiconductor materials) photodetectors, and Distributed Feedback (DFB) and Fabry-Perot (FP) 1310 nanometer (nm) and 1550 nm analog and digital lasers.
 

   
·   Telecommunications - Our state-of-the-art optical components and modules enable high-speed (up to an aggregate 40 Gb/s) optical interconnections that drive architectures in next-generation carrier class switching and routing networks.  Our parallel optical modules facilitate high channel count optical interconnects in multi-shelf central office equipment.  These systems sit in the network core and in key metro nodes of voice telephony and Internet infrastructures, and are highly expandable with pay-as-you-grow capacity scaling.  EMCORE sells its recently acquired OptoCubeTM transceiver product and other 4- and 12-channel parallel optics products to the telecom equipment industry.
 

      
·   Data Communications - EMCORE’s leading-edge optical components and modules for data applications include 10G Ethernet LX4, 10G Ethernet CX4, SmartLinkTM optical Infiniband, and parallel optical modules for enterprise Ethernet and High Performance Computing (HPC), also called "Super Computing," applications.  These high speed modules enable switch-to-switch, router-to-router, and server-to-server backbone connections at aggregate speeds of 10 gigabits per second (Gb/s) and above.  Pluggable LX4 modules in X2 or XENPAK form factors provide a "pay-as-you-populate" cost structure during installation.  The LX4 can transmit data over both multi-mode and single-mode optical fiber, and currently is the only available option to transmit optical 10G Ethernet signals over 300 meters of legacy multi-mode fiber or 10 km of single-mode fiber.  CX4 modules similarly allow the cost-effective transmission of Ethernet signals over legacy copper cable.  EMCORE’s parallel optical modules also are used in switched bus architectures that are needed for next-generation Super Computers and large servers.
 

 
·   Storage Area Networks - Our optical components also are used in the high-end data storage market, and include high-speed, 850 nm vertical cavity surface emitting lasers (VCSELs) and PIN photodiode components, and 10 Gb/s transmit and receive optical subassemblies (TOSAs/ROSAs).  In the future, EMCORE anticipates selling our integrated pluggable X2 or XENPAK form factor modules into the emerging 10G Fibre Channel segment.  These products provide optical interfaces for switches and storage systems used in large enterprise mission-critical applications, such as inventory control or financial systems.
 

 
·   Satellite Communications - We manufacturer high-efficiency solar cells and solar panels for global satellite communications (satcom), and expect to see increased applications for solar cells in terrestrial power products in fiscal 2005.  EMCORE also manufactures satellite communications fiber optics products, including transmitters, receivers, subsystems, and systems, that transport wideband microwave signals between satellite hub equipment and antenna dishes.
 

                                 
·   Wireless Communications - EMCORE manufactures compound semiconductor RF materials for the wireless handset, cell phone, and base station markets.  Our products include 4-inch and 6-inch InGaP Hetero-junction Bipolar Transistor (HBT), AlGaAs pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistors (pHEMT), and E-mode transistor wafers that are used for power amplifiers and switches within next-generation wireless networks.  We also produce GaN high electron mobility transistors (HEMT) RF materials that are designed to meet future wireless base station infrastructure requirements for higher power and frequency, along with high temperature operation at industry-leading efficiencies.
 

 
The following illustration shows how EMCORE's products are deployed throughout the world's communications infrastructure, and how they interconnect with each other.  The lower left side shows CATV and FTTP networks, the lower right side shows telecommunications and data networks, and the upper portion shows satcom and wireless networks.
 
    
 
GELcore (HB-LED) Joint Venture
 
    EMCORE also is involved in a joint venture with General Electric Lighting to address the solid-state lighting market with High Brightness Light Emitting Diode-based (HB-LED) lighting systems.  Through its 49% ownership in GELcore, LLC (GELcore), EMCORE participates in the development and commercialization of next-generation LED technology for use in the general and specialty illumination markets.  GELcore's products include traffic lights, channel letters, and other signage and display products that incorporate HB-LEDs.  In the near term, GELcore expects to deploy its HB-LED products in the commercial and industrial markets, including medical, aerospace, commerical refrigeration, transportation, appliance, and general and specialty illumination applications.  EMCORE’s partner in the joint venture is General Electric Lighting, which owns the remaining 51% of GELcore.
 
 
Acquisitions and Divestiture
 
    In addition to using our internal capability to develop and manufacture products for target markets, EMCORE continues to expand its portfolio of communications products and technologies through acquisitions: 


·   In October 2003, EMCORE acquired Molex Inc.’s 10G Ethernet transceiver business (Molex) for an initial $1.0 million in cash, $1.5 million in cash earnout based upon initial LX4 unit shipments, and future cash earnout payments.  This transaction included assets, products, and significant intellectual property in LX4 technology, as well as several Molex product designers.  EMCORE's newly-formed design center in Downers Grove, IL designs and manufactures serial 10 Gb/s and coarse-wavelength division-multiplexing (CWDM) optical transceivers for the growing 10G Ethernet market.  Management believes that the acquisition of Molex's 10G Ethernet transceiver business has provided us with a significant competitive advantage and the most complete 10G Ethernet transceiver product portfolio in the industry.
 



·   In June 2004, EMCORE acquired Corona Optical Systems, Inc. (Corona) for $1.2 million in a cash-for-stock merger.  Corona is a market leader in parallel optics with its ultra-small form factor OptoCubeTM transceiver, which is currently being deployed by Tier 1 customers for use in telecommunications switching and carrier-class routing applications.  This acquisition further strengthens EMCORE’s position as a leader in parallel optics technology.  The unique OptoCube transceiver’s ultra-small form factor design and manufacturing platform are well-suited for high-performance, low-cost, and high-volume manufacturing.  The OptoCube transceiver can be used as part of high-density optical backplanes in a variety of defense, super-computing, and consumer applications.
 

 
    As discussed in last year’s Annual Report, EMCORE sold its TurboDisc capital equipment business in November 2003 to a subsidiary of Veeco Instruments Inc. (Veeco) in a transaction that is valued at up to $80.0 million.  The selling price was $60.0 million in cash at closing, with an additional aggregate maximum payout of $20.0 million over the next two years.  EMCORE will receive in cash or stock 50% of all revenues from the TurboDisc capital equipment business that exceed $40.0 million in each of the next two years, beginning January 1, 2004.  EMCORE management expects to receive between $15.0 and $17.0 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2005 as part of the additional payout.
 
    Futhermore, as part of EMCORE’s business strategy, we are committed to the ongoing evaluation of strategic opportunities and, where appropriate, to the acquisition of additional products, technologies, or businesses that are complementary to, or broaden the markets for, our products.
 
 
Compound Semiconductor Industry Overview
 
    Advances in information technologies have created a growing need for efficient and high-performance electronic systems that operate at very high frequencies, provide higher transmission rates with increased storage capacities, have augmented computational and display capabilities, and can be produced cost-effectively in commercial volumes.  In the past, manufacturers of electronic systems have relied on advances in silicon semiconductor technology to meet many of these demands.  But the latest generation of high-performance electronic and optoelectronic applications require certain functionalities that are generally not achievable using silicon-based components.  Advantages of compound semiconductor devices over traditional silicon devices include:
 
·   Higher operating speeds to address 10 Gb/s and beyond applications; 

 
·   Lower power consumption to meet the demand for higher bandwidth density; 

 
·   Reduced noise and distortion for maximum signal-to-noise performance;  

 
·   Higher temperature performance for both commercial and military applications;  

 
·   Light emitting and detecting optoelectronic properties to power the optical interconnection market; 

 
·   Higher detection efficiency to maximize power conversion in satellite applications; and 

 
·   Higher light emission efficiency for converting electrical power in general and specialty illumination devices. 

 
    Compound semiconductor devices also can be combined into integrated circuits, such as transmitters, receivers and alphanumeric displays. Electronic manufacturers are increasingly integrating compound semiconductor devices into their products in order to achieve higher performance in applications targeted for a wide variety of communications markets. Examples of such applications enabled by compound semiconductor devices include:


·   High speed Internet built upon optical devices that transport data cost-effectively over local and long distances; 

 
·   Video-on-demand over broadband cable modems using high-efficiency lasers and low-noise receivers; 

 
·   Storage Area Networks for the high-speed transfer of data between computer systems and storage elements;  

 
·   Satellite communications that utilize high-efficiency solar cells to power satellites and fiber optics components and subsystems to connect antennas to ground stations; 
 

 
·   LED traffic lights, signage, displays, automotive, and general illumination devices built upon high-brightness LEDs; 

 
·   Cellular telephones and wireless networks that utilize power-efficient RF devices; 

 
·   DVD players built upon short wavelength optical devices to maximize storage density; and 

 
·   Laser mice incorporating VCSELs for desktop computing. 

 
    The systems that enable these applications consist of many components and subsystems that incorporate individual compound semiconductor devices.  Companies that own unique leading-edge technologies will be able to continue to provide value-added components, subsystems, and turnkey systems to meet the expanding communications requirements of the future.
 
    The diagram below shows the individual building blocks that enable the final user application.  The trend in the industry is for companies to supply more and more of the products within each layer in order to stay cost competitive and improve operating margins.  EMCORE focuses its products in the materials, components, and subsystems layers.
 
Consumer 
   
Applications: Internet, CATV, Telephony, FTTP, Satcom, Wi-Fi networks, Storage Area Networks 
   
Systems: modems, cell phones, routers/switches, servers, computers, satellites, lighting 
   
Subsystems: subassemblies, modules, transmitters/receivers, solar panels 
   
Components: VCSELs, DFB lasers, PIN detectors, RF devices, solar cells, LEDs 
   
Compound Semiconductor Materials: Gallium Arsenide, Indium Gallium Phosphide, Gallium Nitride 
   

 
 
EMCORE’s Strategy
 
    Our objective is to maximize shareholder value by capitalizing upon our leading-edge compound semiconductor materials and device expertise to provide cost-effective components and subsystems for the broadband, fiber optic, satellite, and wireless communications markets.  The key elements of EMCORE’s strategy include:


I.   Leverage EMCORE’s Leading-Edge Compound Semiconductor and Manufacturing Expertise Across Multiple Product Applications.  

 
    The model of purchasing components from multiple vendors results in too many layers of margin stack-ups, such that the final integrated subsystem is no longer cost competitive.  We believe the trend in our industry is towards a vertically integrated structure in which key technologies are produced internally.  By having the know-how and intellectual property to internally produce and supply compound semiconductor products, EMCORE can stay ahead of the competition in both performance and cost effectiveness.
 
    EMCORE continually leverages its proprietary core technologies to develop compound semiconductor products for multiple applications in a variety of markets.  Our internally designed and manufactured VCSELs, digital DFB lasers, and PIN and APD photodiodes are the optical components used in our TOSA and ROSA products, as well as in our data and telecommunications transmitters, receivers, transceivers, and transponders.  Similarly, our internally designed and manufactured analog and digital DFB and FP lasers and PIN photodiodes are the optical components used in our CATV and FTTP devices.
 
II.   Target Potential High Growth Market Opportunities.  

 
    We target potential high growth market opportunities, where performance characteristics and high volume production efficiencies can give compound semiconductors a competitive advantage over other devices.  Historically, while technologically superior, compound semiconductors have not been widely deployed because they are more expensive to manufacture than silicon-based semiconductors and other existing solutions.  EMCORE believes that as compound semiconductor production costs are reduced, new customers will be compelled to use these products because of their enhanced performance characteristics.  For example, we are currently focused on high growth areas in communications infrastructure by providing complete solutions for widely-accepted transmission platforms, such as 10G Ethernet, Synchronous Optical Network (SONET), Infiniband, and Fibre Channel.
 
    With increased demand for high bandwidth services, such as Internet, enterprise data processing and storage, video-on-demand, on-line gaming, and high-definition television (HDTV), more and more systems are relying on optics to transmit the signals.  EMCORE is well positioned to leverage its compound semiconductor expertise in the area of VCSELs, DFB lasers, PIN/APD detectors into value-added subsystems to meet this market demand.
 
III.   Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Partnerships with Industry Leading Companies. 

 
    EMCORE seeks to identify and develop long-term relationships with leading companies in each of the industries that we serve.  We develop these relationships through long-term, high-volume supply agreements, joint ventures, acquisitions, investments, and other arrangements.  Significant transactions include: 
 
    Strategic Commercial Relationships - In June 2004, EMCORE announced that it had been selected by ANADIGICS, Inc., a leading supplier of wireless and broadband solutions, to be their primary supplier for all RF materials.  EMCORE's six-inch GaAs RF transistor wafers will be used to produce power amplifiers and related devices for deployment in widespread wireless applications, such as cellular telephones, laptop computers, and wireless infrastructure networks;
 
    Technology Development - EMCORE works closely with our customers to develop next-generation technology, based on our technical and manufacturing capabilities, to help our customers achieve their product roadmap objectives.  In fiscal 2004, EMCORE achieved design wins with Cisco Systems, Inc. (10G XENPAK), Alcatel (FTTP video receiver), Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. (CATV HFC transmitter), and Aurora Networks (CATV HFC transmitter);
 
    Joint Venture - In January 1999, General Electric Lighting and EMCORE formed GELcore, a joint venture to develop and market HB-LED lighting products.  Since its inception, GELcore has had a compound annual revenue growth rate of 23%, with calendar 2003 revenue totaling $53.7 million.  EMCORE expects that GELcore’s calendar 2004 revenue will approximate $70.0 million.  General Electric Lighting and EMCORE have agreed that this joint venture will be the exclusive vehicle for each party’s participation in solid-state lighting;


    Acquisitions - Recently, acquisitions have been a focus in order to enhance technologies.  Over the past two years, the acquisitions listed below have expanded not only our materials expertise, but also our components and subsystems technologies:
 
·   Alvesta’s low-cost pluggable optical and electrical module technology leverages EMCORE’s VCSEL and PIN expertise; 

 
·   Ortel’s high-performance broadcast and QAM transmitters and subscriber-end receivers leverages EMCORE’s DFB laser, APD detector, and analog and digital RF expertise;  

 
·   Molex’s industry leading CWDM optical modules leverage EMCORE’s multi-wavelength DFB laser and PIN detector expertise; and 

 
·   Corona’s ultra-small form factor transceivers leverage EMCORE’s position in the parallel optics market. 


    Investment - In October 2004, EMCORE invested $1.0 million in K2 Optronics, Inc., a California-based company that specializes in the design and manufacture of external cavity lasers, to strengthen our partnership in designing next-generation, high-performance, long-wavelength components on an exclusive basis for the CATV and FTTP markets.
 
IV.   Continually Invest in Research and Development to Maintain Technology Leadership. 

 
    Through substantial investment in research and development (R&D), EMCORE seeks to expand its leadership position in compound semiconductor-based communications products and subsystems.  We work with our customers to enhance the performance of our processes, materials science, and fiber optic module design expertise, including the development of new low-cost, high-volume wafers, components, and subsystems for our customers. To remain a leader in our markets, EMCORE not only addresses our customers’ current needs, but we respond to their evolving requirements to remain designed into their product lifecycles.  In addition, EMCORE’s development efforts are focused on continually lowering the production costs of its products.  For example, in December 2003, we introduced the SmartLink™ optical Infiniband link, a low cost, 10 Gb/s media converter solution that uses fiber optics to extend the current copper socket throughout the data center or central office (CO).  The SmartLink component replaces bulky, distance-limited Infiniband copper cable with a low cost, plug-and-play optical connection that provides improved performance, lighter weight, and extended reach (up to 300 meters), with low cross talk.
 
V.   Target Positive Cash Flows From Operations.  

 
    Management is committed to achieving profitability by reducing EMCORE’s cost structure and lowering the breakeven points of every product line, with the goal of achieving cash flow breakeven from operations during fiscal 2005.  In the past year, management has implemented a number of initiatives to help achieve this goal: (i) outsourced high volume product manufacturing to contract manufacturers overseas; (ii) consolidated various corporate functions; (iii) reduced outside contractors and temporary workers; (iv) implemented programs to improve manufacturing process yields; (v) focused R&D efforts on projects that are expected to generate returns within one year without, we believe, jeopardizing future revenue opportunities; and (vi) workforce reductions.  Additional product manufacturing will be outsourced during fiscal 2005, and further consolidation of facilities is under review.  Offsetting some of the savings, however, are costs to implement the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related increases in auditing fees.
 
 
EMCORE’s Products
 
    The following chart summarizes (i) our products, (ii) the markets to which those products are directed, (iii) representative applications in which our products are used, and (iv) certain benefits and characteristics of compound semiconductor devices:


Products Market Representative Applications Benefits/Characteristics 
           
§ Analog & digital lasers (DFB, FP)
§ Photodetectors and subassembly
components
§ Broadcast analog & digital fiber-optic
transmitters
§ QAM transmitters CATV § Cable Television (CATV)
§ Hybrid Fiber Coax (HFC) networks
§ Digital overlay on HFC § Increased capacity to offer more
cable services
§ Increase data transmission speeds
§ Increased bandwidth
§ Lower power consumption
§ Low noise video receive
§ Increased transmission distance 
          

§ Analog & digital lasers (DFB, FP)
§ Photodetectors and subassembly
components
§ PIN and APD photodiodes and
subassemblies
§ Passive optical network (PON)
transceivers
§ Analog & digital video receivers
§ Multi-Dwelling Unit video receivers FTTP
  § Passive optical network (PON) in
Fiber-to-the-Premise (FTTP)
networks § High performance for both digital
and analog characteristics
§ Integrated infrastructure to support
competitive costs
§ Support for multiple standards 
       
§ High-speed lasers (VCSEL, DFB,
FP) and subassembly components
§ High-speed photodetector (PIN,
APD) and subassembly components 
§ RF devices and materials
§ 10G Ethernet modules in XENPAK
& X2
§ Parallel optical modules Data Communications
(LAN, SAN, Infiniband) § High-speed fiber optic networks and
optical links (including Infiniband,
Ethernet, Fibre Channel networks)
§ Copper replacement in the data
center/CO
§ Supercomputing
§ High performance computing (HPC)
systems
§ Storage Area Networks (SAN)
§ Network Attached Storage (NAS) § Increased network capacity
§ Increase data transmission speeds
§ Increased bandwidth
§ Lower power consumption
§ Improved cable management over
copper interconnects
§ Increased transmission distance
§ Lowest cost optical interconnections
for massively parallel
multi-processors 
       
§ Solar cells and panels
§ RF materials
§ Fiber-optic transmitters and receivers Satellite Communications § Power modules for satellites
§ Satellite-to-ground communications
§ Antenna to ground station
communications § High radiation tolerance
§ High light-to-power conversion
efficiency for reduced size and
launch costs
§ Increased bandwidth 
       
§ RF and electronic materials
§ RF and electronic devices
§ Optical transmitters for remoting Wireless Communications § Cellular telephones
§ Pagers
§ PCS handsets
§ Direct broadcast systems
§ PDAs
§ Remoting § Increased network capacity
§ Lower power consumption
§ Reduced network congestion
§ Extended battery life
§ Improved signal-to-noise
performance 
       
§ HB-LED lighting systems
  Solid-State Lighting § Flat panel displays
§ Solid-state lighting
§ Outdoor signage and displays
§ Traffic signals § Lower power consumption
§ Lower temperature operation
§ Longer life 
       

 
 
    The following charts depict some of our products:
 



 

 
 
 

 
 
EMCORE’s Product Lines


Fiber Optics
 
    Over the past several years, communications networks have experienced dramatic growth in data transmission traffic due to worldwide Internet access, e-mail, and e-commerce.  As Internet content expands to include full motion video on-demand (including HDTV), multi-channel high quality audio, online video conferencing, image transfer, online gaming, and other broadband applications, the delivery of such data will place a greater demand on available bandwidth.  The bulk of this traffic is already routed through the optical networking infrastructure used by local and long distance carriers, as well as Internet service providers.  Optical fiber offers substantially greater bandwidth capacity, is less error prone, and is easier to administer than older copper wire technologies.
 
    EMCORE's fiber optics group manufactures high-speed optical transmitter, receiver, and transceiver modules that utilize our leading-edge laser and photodiode components for the data communications and telecommunications markets.  EMCORE's modules are designed to help solve data bottleneck problems for short and intermediate distance applications in central office, enterprise, and point-of-presence (POP) environments.  Growing segments, such as 10G Ethernet, Infiniband, Fibre Channel, and SONET, benefit from these cost-effective products.  As summarized in the table below, EMCORE has positioned itself as a component and subsystem manufacturer that services a significant portion of the digital and analog communications market:
 

 
 
    Short Wavelength (850 nm) VCSELs
 
    EMCORE designs, develops, and manufactures high-speed VCSELs and PIN photodiode components and subassemblies for the data communications (including local and storage area networks) and telecommunications markets.  We offer a broad product line of VCSEL and PIN photodiode solutions, including bare die, packaged components, and optical subassemblies for integration into 1G-10G Ethernet, Fibre Channel, Infiniband, CWDM, SONET, and other high-speed telecom applications.
 
    VCSELs are revolutionary compound semiconductor micro laser diodes that emit light vertically from the surface of a fabricated wafer.  They combine the ability of batch process and on-wafer tests like LEDs with the superior electro-optical performance of traditional edge-emitting lasers.  In addition, the cylindrical laser beam profile allows an easy and efficient coupling of light into a multi-mode fiber.  This enhanced manufacturability for both wafer processing and packaging enables a cost-effective, high-bandwidth fiber optic communications solution.
 
    VCSELs have many advantages, including ultra-high modulation rates for advanced information signaling, extremely low power consumption, high fiber optic coupling efficiencies, circular output beams, and photolithography-defined geometries.  We capitalize on our oxide-confined VCSEL manufacturing platform and expertise to provide the industry with 1 Gb/s, 2 Gb/s, 2.5 Gb/s, 4 Gb/s, 10 Gb/s (OC-192), and 40 Gb/s (OC-768) solutions through single-channel serial, multi-channel parallel, or CWDM approaches.  Our customers combine this VCSEL technology with custom integrated circuits (IC) and module level designs for the final transceiver package, which usually consists of a VCSEL, photodiode, laser driver circuit, receiver circuit, and various other electronic components that are all connected via a printed circuit board.  This circuit board is then mounted into a mechanical housing with an electrical connection to the user's system and an optical connection to fiber cabling.  Leading electronic systems manufacturers are integrating VCSELs into a broad array of end-market applications, including Internet backbone, telephony, and computing.  Specific network elements include Ethernet switches, digital cross-connects, grooming switches, clustered servers with Infiniband interfaces, supercomputers, and carrier class routers.
 

    Long Wavelength (1310 nm and 1550 nm) DFB and FP Lasers
 
    EMCORE’s Ortel division designs, develops, and manufactures high-speed, long-wavelength edge emitters, which are based on DFB or FP technologies and enhanced with predistortion technology invented by Ortel for highest fidelity applications.  These devices are packaged into subsystems and used to transmit CATV or FTTP signals from the service provider to the subscriber, and back.  The primary advantage of the longer wavelength (i.e., 1310 nm, 1490 nm, and 1550 nm) and narrow spectral width (in the case of the DFB laser) is the reduced absorption and dispersion within the optical fiber.  This results in increased distances between repeaters or amplifiers, which reduces deployment costs for the service providers.
 
    Photodetectors (PIN and APD)
 
    Photodetectors are discrete semiconductor devices that detect light in order to convert an optical signal into an electrical signal.  Similar to VCSELs, photodetectors combine the ability of batch processing and on-wafer testing with superior electro-optical performance.  The large aperture size readily permits efficient coupling of light from a multi-mode or single-mode fiber.  EMCORE has developed 850 nm, 1310 nm, and 1550 nm photodetectors to cover most speed and distance applications.  In addition, 1x4 and 1x12 arrays of 850 nm photodetectors can be incorporated into our parallel optical modules.  The addition of photodetector products completes our line of optical devices, and provides an internal supply for all of our optical subsystems.
 
    Optical Subsystems (Transmitters, Receivers, Transceivers, and Transponders)
 
    EMCORE's optical subsystem products are built using our internally produced optical devices, which allows us to provide highly cost-effective subsystems in our key markets.  By creating additional value at the subsusyem level, and leveraging our compound semiconductor expertise and growing know-how in subsystem design and manufacturing, we can further improve margins and increase our overall revenue.  Our subsystem products are becoming quite intelligent, with functions that re-time and clean up the signals passing through them.  Many of these subsystems have been widely adopted in Ethernet, SONET, Infiniband, and Fibre Channel equipment.  Most widely available is the XENPAK form factor (for more information see www.xenpak.org).  In 2004, EMCORE added customers, expanded production, and began high volume commercial shipments of two key value-added subsystems in the XENPAK form factor (the LX4 and CX4) to vendors shipping 10G Ethernet systems.  EMCORE's family of subsystem products includes:
 
·   Broadcast transmitters and QAM overlay systems for CATV and FTTP applications based on 1550 nm laser technology;
 

 
·   Subscriber-end video receivers for CATV and FTTP applications based on 1310 nm and 1550 nm PIN detectors and video receive technology; 

 
·   XENPAK and X2 transceivers using optical LX4 (CWDM) and copper CX4 technology for the 10G Ethernet market; 

 
·   4- and 12-channel parallel optical transceiver modules for HPCs, supercomputers, and high-end servers, data communications switches, and telecommunications switch applications based on 850 nm VCSEL and PIN array technology; and
 

 
  ·   10 Gb/s transmit and receive optical subassemblies for Storage Area Networks. 

 
Photovoltaics 
 
EMCORE serves the global satellite communications market by providing advanced solar cell products and solar panels.  Compound semiconductor solar cells are used to power satellites because they are more resistant to radiation levels in space and convert substantially more power from light, therefore weighing less per unit of power than silicon-based solar cells.  These characteristics increase satellite useful life, increase payload capacity, and reduce launch costs.
 
A solar cell works as follows: the "photovoltaic effect" is the basic physical process through which a solar cell converts sunlight into electricity.  Sunlight is composed of photons, or particles of energy.  These photons contain various amounts of energy corresponding to the different wavelengths of the solar spectrum.  When photons strike a solar cell, they may be reflected or absorbed, or they may pass right through the cell.  Only the absorbed photons generate electricity.  When this happens, the energy of the photon is transformed into an electric current.  Special electrical properties of the solar cell provide the voltage needed to drive the current through an external load (such as a transponder or transmitter aboard a spacecraft).
 
EMCORE designs and manufactures multi-junction compound semiconductor solar cells for military and commercial satellite applications.  Our Albuquerque, New Mexico facility is a state-of-the-art, highly automated factory that includes a computer-aided manufacturing system to monitor production processes, generate electronic run cards, and provide real-time production and yield metrics.  We currently manufacture one of the most efficient and reliable commercially available, radiation resistant advanced triple-junction solar cells in the world, with an average "beginning of life" efficiency of 27.5%.  A satellite’s broadcast success and corresponding revenue depend on its power efficiency and its capacity to transmit data.
 
EMCORE also provides covered interconnect solar cells (CICs) and solar panel lay-down services, giving us the capacity to manufacture complete solar panels.  We can provide satellite manufacturers with proven integrated satellite power solutions that considerably improve satellite economics.  Satellite manufacturers and solar array integrators rely on EMCORE to meet their satellite power needs with proven flight heritage.  Through well-established partnerships with major satellite manufacturers and a proven qualification process, we play a vital role in the evolution of satellite communications around the world.
 
We also recently have begun an active R&D effort in terrestrial solar cell applications.  EMCORE is conducting a National Renewable Energy Laboratory-funded effort to adapt our space-qualified advanced triple-junction solar cell technology for the terrestrial photovoltaic market.  Because of its higher device cost when compared to silicon-based terrestrial solar cells, we also are developing solar concentrator systems to lower the cost per watt generated by our compound semiconductor-based terrestrial solar cells.  Major terrestrial solar power manufacturers have expressed interest in incorporating EMCORE’s photovoltaics technology into their commercial products.
 
Through its Ortel division, EMCORE also manufactures and sells a line of fiber optic satellite communications transmitters, subsystems, and systems to transport wideband microwave signals between satellite base stations and antenna dishes.
 
Electronic Materials and Devices 
 
RF materials are compound semiconductor materials used in wireless communications.  These materials have a broader bandwidth and superior performance at higher frequencies compared to silicon-based materials. EMCORE currently produces 4-inch and 6-inch InGaP HBT and AlGaAs pHEMT materials and E-mode transistor wafers that are used for power amplifiers and switches in GSM, CDMA multiband wireless handsets, cell phones, and in wireless LAN applications.  InGaP HBT materials provide higher linearity, higher power-added efficiency, as well as greater reliability than first generation AlGaAs HBT technologies.  In addition, our recently-developed enhanced mode pHEMT technologies have demonstrated in production their continued competitiveness for handset applications.  EMCORE also makes GaN HEMT RF materials that are designed to meet future wireless base station infrastructure requirements for higher power and frequency, along with temperature operation at industry leading efficiencies.  We believe that our ability to produce high volumes of RF materials at a low cost will encourage their adoption in new applications and products.
 
EMCORE's Somerset, New Jersey manufacturing facility has seven GaAs-based MOCVD production systems, two GaN production systems, and two GaN development systems dedicated to electronic materials manufacturing.  EMCORE also equipped its wafer fabrication area with state-of-the-art cassette-to-cassette characterization equipment.  As mentioned above, in June 2004, EMCORE announced that it had been selected by ANADIGICS to be their primary supplier for all RF materials.  Our six-inch GaAs RF transistor wafers will be used to produce power amplifiers and related devices that are used in widespread wireless applications, such as cellular telephones, laptop computers, and wireless infrastructure networks.
 
We also manufacture magneto-resistive (MR) sensors that are compound semiconductor devices used in position sensing applications.  MR sensors improve vehicle performance through the more accurate control of engine and crank shaft timing, which allows for improved spark plug efficiency and reduced emissions.  EMCORE sells MR sensors using technology licensed from General Motors. 
 
GELcore (HB-LED) Joint Venture 
 
HB-LEDs are solid-state compound semiconductor devices that emit light.  They are used in miniature packages in everyday applications, including commercial displays, transportation, general and specialty illumination, computers, and other consumer electronics.  HB-LEDs offer substantial advantages over small incandescent bulbs, including longer life, lower maintenance costs and energy consumption, and smaller space requirements.  Groups of HB-LEDs can make up single or full-color electronic displays.  Presently, HB-LED chips are used for backlighting applications, including wireless handsets, cell phones, computer monitors, and automotive dashboard lighting.  In addition, they are used in consumer products, office equipment, full color displays, message advertising, informational signs, landscape lighting, and traffic signals.  While growing its business in commercial applications, GELcore is focused on the general illumination market as its ultimate goal.
 
HB-LEDs have the potential to significantly reduce overall U.S. lighting energy consumption.  Energy savings to date from HB-LEDs have been estimated to exceed the power produced from one large electric power plant -- more than 8 billion kilowatt-hours.  If solid-state lighting achieves anticipated price and performance targets, over the next two decades U.S. lighting energy consumption could be reduced by over 30 percent.  HB-LED traffic signals use only 10 percent of the electricity consumed by the incandescent lamps they replace.  Moreover, LED signals last several times longer, allowing for additional savings through reduced maintenance costs.  HB-LEDs also have made inroads into mobile applications, such as brake and signal lights on trucks, buses, and automobiles.  In 2002, an estimated 41 million gallons of gasoline and 142 million gallons of diesel fuel were saved because of HB-LED use on these vehicles.  If our nation's entire fleet of automobiles, trucks, and buses were converted to HB-LED lighting, an estimated 1.4 billion gallons of gasoline and 1.1 billion gallons of diesel fuel could have been saved.  (The information in this paragraph is based on published reports prepared by Navigant Consulting for the US Department of Energy.)
 
As mentioned above, in January 1999, EMCORE and General Electric Lighting formed GELcore, a joint venture to develop and market HB-LED lighting products.  EMCORE has a 49% non-controlling interest in this joint venture, and both owners have agreed that this joint venture will be the exclusive vehicle for their participation in solid-state lighting.  GELcore combines EMCORE's materials science and device design expertise with General Electric Lighting's brand name recognition, phosphor technology, and extensive marketing and distribution capabilities.  GELcore's current product line includes traffic lights, channel letters, and other signage and display products incorporating HB-LEDs.  In the near term, GELcore expects to be deploying its HB-LED products in the commercial refrigeration market.  GELcore's long-term goal is to develop products that replace traditional lighting in the general illumination market. 
 


Revenues by Product Line 
 
The table below sets forth the revenues and percentage of total revenues attributable to each of EMCORE's product lines for each of the past three fiscal years:
 
 (in thousands)  For the fiscal years ended September 30,
 
    FY 2004     % of revenue     FY 2003     % of revenue     FY 2002     % of revenue   
                                      
Product Revenue                                     
 Fiber Optics $ 56,169     60.4 %  $ 32,658     54.2 %  $ 9,077     17.7 % 
 Photovoltaics   25,716     27.6     18,196     30.2     23,621     46.1   
    Electronic Materials and Devices   11,184     12.0     9,430     15.6     18,538     36.2   
                                      
Total revenues $ 93,069     100.0 %  $ 60,284     100.0 %  $ 51,236     100.0 % 

 
 
Government Research Contract Funding
 
    EMCORE derives a portion of its revenue from funding of research contracts with the U.S. Government (Government).  These contracts typically cover work performed from over several months up to several years.  These contracts may be modified or terminated at the convenience of the Government and therefore, these programs may be subject to Government budgetary fluctuations.  In fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002, Government research contract funding represented 5%, 9%, and 6% of total EMCORE revenue, respectively.
 
 
Customers and Geographic Region
 
    EMCORE works closely with its customers to design and develop (i) process technology, (ii) material science expertise, (iii) optical sub-assemblies, and/or (iv) integrated module level products for use in its customers' end-use applications.  EMCORE's customer base includes many of the largest semiconductor, telecommunications, data communications, and computer manufacturing companies in the world.  In fiscal 2004, Motorola, Inc. (Motorola) and Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco) accounted for 13% and 8% of our total revenue, respectively.  In fiscal 2003, Motorola accounted for 14% of total revenue.  In fiscal 2002, revenues from Motorola, Boeing Satellite Systems, Inc. (Boeing), and Space Systems/Loral, Inc. (SS/L) accounted for 22%, 15%, and 14% of total revenue, respectively.
 
    The following chart contains a breakdown of EMCORE's consolidated revenues by geographic region.  North American sales include sales to Canada, which historically have not been material.
 
 (in thousands) For the fiscal years ended September 30,  
    FY 2004      % of revenue     FY 2003     % of revenue     FY 2002     % of revenue   
                                      
 Revenue by Region                                     
    North America $ 66,485     71.4 %  $ 44,136     73.2 %  $ 42,983     83.9 % 
    South America   416     0.5     -     -     -     -   
    AsiaPac   15,496     16.6     9,018     15.0     3,638     7.1   
    Europe   10,672     11.5     7,130     11.8     4,615     9.0   
                                      
Total revenues $ 93,069     100.0 %  $ 60,284     100.0 %  $ 51,236     100.0 % 
                                      

 
 
Marketing and Sales
 
    EMCORE actively markets its products through its dedicated sales force, external sales agents, marketing staff, applications engineers, select advertising, and participation at trade shows.  Our customers work directly with our internal sales force, external sales agents, and senior management.  EMCORE's strategy is to use its dedicated sales force for marketing and selling to key accounts.  EMCORE plans to expand its external sales agent program for increased coverage in international markets and some domestic segments.
    
    During fiscal 2004, EMCORE relied on Hakuto Co., Ltd. (Hakuto) pursuant to various distributorship and sales representative agreements to market and sell certain products in Japan and China.  Hakuto primarily marketed and serviced EMCORE’s reactor products until the sale of the capital equipment division to Veeco.  Following such sale, EMCORE and Hakuto agreed in October 2004 to terminate their distributorship and sales representative agreements.  Hakuto owns approximately 4% of EMCORE’s common stock, and Shigeo Takayama, the Chairman of Hakuto, was a member of EMCORE’s Board of Directors from 1997 until he retired in 2002.
 
    EMCORE uses a variety of external sales agents, such as UR Group in Europe, BUPT and MilliTech in China, and M-RF in Japan.  We also have an established distribution and value added reseller channel to sell our satcom products worldwide.
 
    EMCORE's sales cycle for component and subsystem products is usually three months to in excess of a year.  During this time, we work closely with our customers to qualify our products in their product lines.  As a result, EMCORE develops strategic and long lasting customer relationships with products and services that we believe are uniquely tailored to our customers' requirements.
 
 
Backlog
 
    As of September 30, 2004, EMCORE had a backlog it believes to be firm of approximately $28.8 million.  This compares to a backlog of $33.1 million as reported at September 30, 2003.  Backlog principally consists of EMCORE's longer lead-time products, such as satellite communications.  Our other product lines, including fiber optics and RF, typically ship within the same quarter as the purchase order is received.  We believe that substantially all of our backlog can be filled during the next 12 months.  But given the current market environment, customers may delay shipment of certain orders.  Backlog also could be adversely affected if customers unexpectedly cancel purchase orders accepted by us.
 
 
Manufacturing
 
    EMCORE's operations include wafer fabrication, design and device production, solar panel engineering and assembly, and fiber optic module design and manufacture.  Many of EMCORE's manufacturing operations are computer monitored or controlled to enhance reliability and yield.  EMCORE employs a strategy of minimizing ongoing capital investments, while maximizing the variable nature of its cost structure.  EMCORE maintains a commercially advantageous contract supply agreement with Veeco for MOCVD systems, components, and spare parts.  Where EMCORE can gain significant cost advantages while maintaining strict quality and intellectual property control, EMCORE outsources to overseas contract manufacturers (CMs) the production of certain components and sub-assemblies.  Our contract manufacturing supply chain is an integral part of enabling this strategy.  EMCORE develops assembly and testing procedures, and then transfers these procedures overseas.  Our CMs must maintain comprehensive quality and delivery systems, and we continuously monitor them for compliance.  As of September 30, 2004, EMCORE had 330 employees involved in manufacturing.  The location of and products manufactured at EMCORE's facilities are summarized below:


Location EMCORE Product Line 
     
Somerset, New Jersey
(headquarters) Electronic materials (InGaP HBTs, AlGaAs pHEMTs, and GaN HEMTs)
Electronic devices (MR Sensors) 
    
Albuquerque, New Mexico
  Photovoltaics (solar cells)
Fiber Optics (VCSEL and photodiode die, parallel optical modules)  
    
City of Industry, California Photovoltaics (CICs and solar panels) 
    
Alhambra, California Fiber Optics (CATV, FTTP, lasers, modules, and subsystems) 
    
Santa Clara, California Fiber Optics (parallel optical modules, design center for 10G Ethernet modules) 
    
Downers Grove, Illinois Fiber Optics (10G Ethernet fiber optical modules ) 
    
Eau Claire, Wisconsin Fiber Optics (design center for parallel optical modules) 
    

 
    EMCORE has combined clean room area totaling approximately 88,000 square feet.  Unlike silicon semiconductor technology, which could involve up to a 100-step manufacturing process, our electronic materials and devices products are manufactured in a four-part process: epitaxial deposition, fabrication, testing, and packaging.  The epitaxial deposition process represents the growth of thin layers of GaAs, GaN, or other materials on a polished wafer, depending on the nature of the device being produced.  Following epitaxy, chips are fabricated in a clean room environment.  The final steps involve testing and packaging prior to shipment to the customer, or further integration into a module or subsystem within EMCORE's manufacturing infrastructure.  EMCORE also maintains the capability to transfer and monitor our ongoing processes to CMs.
 
    Our various manufacturing processes involve extensive quality assurance systems and performance testing.  All of EMCORE's facilities have acquired and maintain certification status for their quality management systems. The New Jersey facility, which is used for EMCORE's electronic materials and devices products, is registered to both ISO 9001 and QS 9000-1998.  Both the New Mexico and California facilities, which are used for EMCORE's photovoltaics and fiber optics products, are registered to ISO 9001.
 
 
Sources of Raw Materials
 
    Outside contractors and vendors are used to supply raw materials and standard components, as well as to assemble portions of end subsystems, components, and modules from EMCORE specifications.  EMCORE continually reviews our vendor relationships to mitigate risks and improve costs, especially where we depend on one or two vendors for critical components or raw materials.  While maintaining inventories that we believe are sufficient to meet our near term needs, we generally do not carry significant inventories of raw materials.  Accordingly, EMCORE maintains ongoing communications with our vendors to work to prevent any interruptions in supply, and have implemented a supply-chain management program to maintain quality and improve prices through standardized purchasing efficiencies and design requirements.  To date, we generally have been able to obtain sufficient quantities of quality supplies in a timely manner.
 
 
Research and Development
 
    The scope of EMCORE's business is in the areas of semiconductor processes and communications components and subsystems.  Our R&D efforts have been sharply focused to maintain the technology leading position of various product lines, and to grow into new product areas and market opportunities by leveraging the existing technology base and infrastructure.  The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid changes in process technologies with increasing levels of functional integration.  To maintain and improve its competitive position, EMCORE invests significant resources in R&D.  Our efforts are focused on designing new proprietary processes and products, on improving the performance of our existing materials, devices, modules, and systems, and on reducing costs in the product manufacturing process.  EMCORE has dedicated 22 MOCVD systems and five device fabrication facilities for both research and production, which are capable of processing virtually all compound semiconductor materials and devices.  Nine of those MOCVD systems and three device fabrication areas are dedicated fully to R&D efforts and are used by a staff of over 94 scientists, engineers, technicians, and staff, of whom 32 have a Ph.D. degree.  The R&D staff utilizes x-ray, optical, and electrical characterization equipment, as well as device and module fabrication and testing, that generates data rapidly, which allows for shortened development cycles and rapid customer response.
 
    During fiscal years 2004, 2003, and 2002, EMCORE invested $23.6 million, $17.0 million, and $30.6 million towards our product R&D activities.  As a percentage of revenues, R&D represented 25%, 28%, and 60% for the fiscal years 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.  As part of the ongoing effort to cut costs, we implemented a program to focus research and product development efforts on projects that we expect to generate returns within one year.  As a result, EMCORE reduced overall R&D costs as a percentage of revenue without, we believe, jeopardizing future revenue opportunities. 
 
    EMCORE’s most recent and successful R&D project was the XENPAK LX4 module that began in August 2003.  Within twelve months, the LX4 module was developed by EMCORE and qualified by the customer, and is being manufactured in full production.  Revenues from LX4 module sales represented a significant area of growth in our total fiscal 2004 revenues.
 
    We believe that several other R&D projects have the potential to greatly improve our competitive position and drive revenue growth in the next few years.  Listed below are several examples:
 
·   In the FTTP market, EMCORE is developing an integrated PON transceiver utilizing Ortel’s industry leading video technology.  EMCORE is currently in qualification and expects production of this PON transceiver to commence by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2005.
 

 
·   EMCORE is currently developing the next generation LX4 module using the smaller X2 form factor.  This X2 LX4 module is expected to begin ramping in the second half of fiscal 2005, and to exceed total sales of the current XENPAK form factor.  As with the current XENPAK LX4 module, EMCORE plans to be a leading supplier and one of the first to market with this product.
 

 
·   In the photovoltaics market, EMCORE is developing a high efficiency solar cell product for terrestrial applications.  Intended for use in concentrated sunlight, these cells already have been measured at 34% efficiency at 400 suns, close to our goal of 35% efficiency at 500 suns. 
 



·   EMCORE has developed GaN HEMT wafers for use in base stations for wireless and cellular networks, and is continuing to work with its customers to optimize their performance, improve yields, and increase wafer size.
 

 
    EMCORE also competes for R&D funds.  In view of the high cost of development, EMCORE solicits research contracts that provide opportunities to enhance its core technology base and promote the commercialization of targeted EMCORE products.  Internal R&D funding is used for the development of products that will be released within 12 months, and external funding is used for longer-range R&D efforts.
 
 
Intellectual Property and Licensing
 
    The success and competitive position of our product lines depend significantly on our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our R&D efforts.  EMCORE's strategy is to rely on both patents and trade secrets to protect its intellectual property.  A patent is the grant of a property right, which allows its holder to exclude others from, among other things, selling the subject invention in, or importing such invention into, the jurisdiction that granted the patent.  In the United States, patents expire twenty years from the date of application.  EMCORE has 46 U.S. patents and 8 foreign patents.  Also, over 100 patent applications have been filed in the U.S. and internationally.  Our U.S. patents will expire between 2009 and 2022.  These patents and patent applications claim various aspects of current or planned commercial versions of EMCORE's wafers, devices, and modules.
    
    EMCORE relies on trade secrets to protect its intellectual property when it believes that publishing patents would make it easier for others to reverse engineer EMCORE's proprietary processes.  A "trade secret" is information that has value to the extent it is not generally known, not readily ascertainable by others through legitimate means, and protected in a way that maintains its secrecy.  Reliance on trade secrets is only an effective business practice insofar as trade secrets remain undisclosed and a proprietary product or process is not reverse engineered or independently developed.  To protect our trade secrets, we take certain measures to ensure their secrecy, such as partitioning the non-essential flow of information between our different groups and executing non-disclosure agreements with our employees, joint venture partners, customers, and suppliers.
 
    As is typical in our industry, from time to time, we have sent letters to, and received letters from, third parties regarding the assertion of patent or other intellectual property rights in connection with certain of our products and processes.  To date, we have not engaged in any litigation regarding the intellectual property rights of our products and processes.
 
    In connection with our sale of the TurboDisc capital equipment business, EMCORE retained a license to all MOCVD system-related technology.  EMCORE intends to use this license to further optimize the performance of its own reactors and develop improvements to its hardware that will increase yields on existing products and enable the fabrication of advanced, wide bandgap materials.
 
 
Environmental Regulations
 
    EMCORE is subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge, and disposal of certain materials used in its R&D and production operations, as well as laws and regulations concerning environmental remediation and employee health and safety.  The production of wafers and devices involves the use of certain hazardous raw materials, including, but not limited to, ammonia, phosphine, and arsine.  EMCORE has in-house professionals to address compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations.
 
    If our control systems are unsuccessful in preventing release of these or other hazardous materials, we could experience a substantial interruption of operations and could be subject to significant liability for clean-up and other claims.  We believe that EMCORE is currently in compliance with all applicable environmental laws, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, except such violations as could not reasonably be expected to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
 
 
Competition
 
The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, price erosion, and substantial foreign competition.  EMCORE faces actual and potential competition from a number of established domestic and international compound semiconductor companies.  Many of these companies have greater engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and financial resources than we have.

 
    CATV.  Competitors in the CATV market include JDS Uniphase Corporation (JDSU), Optium Corporation, Mitsubishi, and Fujitsu.
 
    Telecommunications.  For telecommunications and FTTP components, the market competitors include JDSU, MRV Communications, Fujitsu, Mitsubishi, and Summitomo.  For 10G transceivers and parallel optical modules, our competitors include Agilent Technologies, Inc. (Agilent), Finisar Corporation (Finisar), Eudyna Devices, Inc., Picolight, Inc., and Opnext, Inc. (Opnext).
 
    Data and Storage.  EMCORE's principal competitor for VCSEL devices and components is Finisar (through its Advanced Optical Component division, which was acquired from Honeywell Corporation).  There also are numerous smaller VCSEL vendors located throughout the world.  For 10G LX4 and CX4 products, our primary competitor is Opnext.
 
    Satellite Communications.  For photovoltaics products, EMCORE primarily competes with the Spectrolab, Inc. subsidiary of The Boeing Company, Sharp Electronics Corporation, RWE SCHOTT Solar GmbH, and Mitsubishi Electric.  For satcom products, our primary competitors are Foxcom and MITEQ, Inc.
 
    Wireless Communications.  The primary competitors in the electronic materials and wireless communications markets include Kopin Corporation, Visual Photonics Epitaxy Co., Ltd., Hitachi Cable, Sumika, APA Enterprise, Inc., and IQE plc, as well as integrated circuit manufacturers with in-house transistor growth capabilities.
 
    Solid Sate Lighting.  The principal competitors for HB-LED applications and EMCORE's joint venture with General Electric Lighting include LumiLeds Lighting, a joint venture between Agilent and Philips Lighting, Siemens AG's Osram GmbH subsidiary, Cree, Nichia Corporation, and Toyoda Gosei Co., Ltd.  In addition, Epistar Corporation, Arima Computer Corporation, and other Asia-based companies in recent years have begun production of LEDs. 


In addition to the companies listed above, EMCORE competes with many research institutions and universities for research contract funding.  EMCORE also sells its products to current competitors and companies with the capability of becoming competitors.  As the markets for EMCORE's products grow, new competitors are likely to emerge and current competitors may increase their market share.  In the EU, political and legal requirements encourage the purchase of EU-produced goods, which may put EMCORE at a competitive disadvantage against its European competitors.


There are substantial barriers to entry by new competitors across EMCORE's product lines.  These barriers include: the large number of existing patents; the time and costs to be incurred to develop products; the technical difficulty in manufacturing semiconductor products; the lengthy sales and qualification cycles; and the difficulties in hiring and retaining skilled employees with the required scientific and technical backgrounds.  EMCORE believes that the primary competitive factors within EMCORE's current markets are yield, throughput, performance, breadth of product line, product heritage, customer satisfaction, and customer commitment to competing technologies.  Competitors may develop enhancements to or future generations of competitive products that offer superior price and performance factors.  We believe that in order to remain competitive, we must invest significant financial resources in developing new product features and enhancements and in maintaining customer satisfaction worldwide.

 
 
Investments


In addition to the GELcore joint venture mentioned above, in February 2002, EMCORE purchased $1.0 million of preferred stock of Archcom Technology, Inc. (Archcom), a venture-funded, start-up optical networking components company that designs, manufactures, and markets a series of high performance lasers and photodiodes for the datacom and telecom industries.  EMCORE does not exercise significant influence over financial and operating policies, and the investment represents less than 20% of ownership.  Therefore, EMCORE accounts for this investment under the cost method of accounting.  During fiscal 2004, Archcom raised additional capital, but EMCORE did not participate in the latest round.  As a result, we have reduced the carrying value of our investment in Archcom by 50%, or $0.5 million.


Subsequent to our fiscal 2004 year end, in October 2004, EMCORE invested $1.0 million in K2 Optronics, Inc., a California-based company specializing in the design and manufacture of external cavity lasers, to strengthen our partnership in designing next-generation, high-performance, long-wavelength components on an exclusive basis for the CATV and FTTP markets.  EMCORE does not exercise significant influence over financial and operating policies, and the investment represents approximately 6.6% ownership.  Therefore, EMCORE accounts for this investment under the cost method of accounting. 


 
Employees
 
At September 30, 2004, EMCORE had 588 employees, including 330 employees in manufacturing operations, 94 employees in R&D, 136 employees in sales, general and administration (SG&A), and 28 temporary employees.  This represented a decrease of 161 employees or 21% from September 30, 2003.  This decrease was primarily attributable to our divestiture of the TurboDisc capital equipment business.  Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel is essential to our continued success.  None of EMCORE's employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we ever experienced any labor-related work stoppage.  We believe that our employee relations are good.
 
 
Risk Factors
 
YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCURS, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. WE CAUTION THE READER THAT THESE RISK FACTORS MAY NOT BE EXHAUSTIVE. WE OPERATE IN A CONTINUALLY CHANGING BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND NEW RISK FACTORS EMERGE FROM TIME TO TIME. WE CANNOT PREDICT SUCH NEW RISK FACTORS, AND WE CANNOT ASSESS THE EFFECT, IF ANY, OF SUCH NEW RISK FACTORS ON OUR BUSINESSES OR THE EXTENT TO WHICH ANY FACTOR, OR COMBINATION OF FACTORS, MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE PROJECTED IN ANY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT. ACCORDINGLY, FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS SHOULD NOT BE RELIED UPON AS A PREDICTION OF ACTUAL RESULTS. IN ADDITION, OUR MANAGEMENT'S ESTIMATES OF FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS ARE BASED ON THE CURRENT COMPLEMENT OF BUSINESSES, WHICH IS CONSTANTLY SUBJECT TO CHANGE AS MANAGEMENT UPDATES AND IMPLEMENTS ITS BUSINESS STRATEGY.


We May Continue To Incur Operating Losses.


We started operations in 1984 and as of September 30, 2004, we had an accumulated deficit of $302.9 million. We incurred net losses of $13.4 million in fiscal 2004, $38.5 million in fiscal 2003, and $129.8 million in fiscal 2002. While we have reduced our cost structure substantially, and are focused on profitability, we may continue to lose money. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment, debt service, and manufacturing overhead are fixed. Accordingly, lower revenue causes our fixed production costs to be allocated across reduced production volumes, which adversely affects our gross margin and profitability. While our business strategy is to achieve operational profitability in 2005, if we are unable to achieve target revenues or to contain our cost structures, we will continue to incur operating losses.


Our Cost Reduction Programs May Be Insufficient To Achieve Long-Term Profitability.


We are undertaking cost reduction measures intended to reduce our expense structure at both the cost of goods sold and the operating expense levels. We believe these measures are a necessary response to, among other things, declining average sales prices across our product lines. These measures may be unsuccessful in creating profit margins sufficient to sustain our current operating structure and business.


Reduced Customer Lead Times Means We Are Less Able To Forecast Revenues And, As A Result, We May Be Unable To Accurately Predict Growth And Manage Our Cost Structure.


Several of our customers have reduced the lead times they give us when ordering product from us. While this trend has enabled us to reduce inventory, it also restricts our ability to forecast revenues. If our sales and profit margins do not increase to support the higher levels of operating expenses, and if our new product offerings are not successful, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.


We Have Substantial Long-Term Debt Which We May Be Unable To Repay If We Cannot Generate Sufficient Funds To Do So Or Restructure The Terms Of The Debt.


In May 2001, we sold $175.0 million of 5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due May 15, 2006 (2006 Notes) in a private placement for resale to qualified institutional buyers. In December 2002, EMCORE purchased $13.2 million principal amount of the notes at prevailing market prices for an aggregate of approximately $6.3 million. In February 2004, EMCORE exchanged approximately $146.0 million, or 90.2%, of these remaining 2006 Notes for approximately $80.3 million aggregate principal amount of new 5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due May 15, 2011 (2011 Notes) and approximately 7.7 million shares of EMCORE common stock.  The notes are convertible into EMCORE common stock at a conversion price of $8.06 per share, subject to adjustment under customary anti-dilutive provisions. They also are redeemable should EMCORE's common stock price reach $12.09 per share.  Approximately $15.7 million of the 2006 notes, and approximately $80.3 million of the 2011 notes, are currently outstanding, for a combined long-term debt of approximately $96.0 million.  In addition, we may incur additional debt in the future. This significant amount of debt could, among other things:


·   make it difficult for us to make payments on the notes and any other debt we may have; 
·   make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes;
 
·   require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, which would reduce the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including working capital and capital expenditures;
 
·   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and 
·   make us more vulnerable in the event of a further or continued downturn in our business. 



If our cash flow is inadequate to meet our obligations or we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the notes or our other obligations, we would be in default under the terms thereof. Default under one or both of the note indentures would permit the holders of the notes to accelerate the maturity of the notes and could cause defaults under future indebtedness we may incur. Any such default would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to repay amounts due in respect of the notes if payment of either or both of the notes were to be accelerated following the occurrence of an event of default as defined in the respective note indentures.


Our Success Depends On Our Ability To Introduce New Products On A Timely Basis.


We compete in markets characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products. Due to constant changes in these markets, our future success depends on our ability to improve our manufacturing processes, systems and products. To remain competitive we must continually introduce new and improved products. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if:


·   we are unable to improve our existing products on a timely basis; 
·   our new products are not introduced on a timely basis or do not achieve sufficient market penetration; or 
·   our new products experience reliability or quality problems. 



If The Internet Does Not Continue To Grow As Expected And Demand Does Not Increase For Our Communications Products, Our Business Will Suffer.


Our future success as a manufacturer of optical components, modules, and subsystems ultimately depends on the continued growth of the communications industry, and, in particular, the growth of the Internet as a global communications system. As part of that growth, we are relying on increasing demand for high-content voice, text, video and other data delivered over high-speed connections (i.e., high bandwidth communications). As Internet usage and bandwidth demand increase, so does the need for advanced optical networks to provide the required bandwidth. Without Internet and bandwidth growth, the need for our advanced communications products, and hence our future growth as a manufacturer of these products, is jeopardized. Currently, while generally increasing demand for Internet access is apparent, less evident is when order capacity will be absorbed. Moreover, multiple service providers compete to supply the existing demand. Also, fiberoptic networks currently have significant excess capacity. The combination of a large number of service providers and excess network capacity has resulted in severe downward pressure on bandwidth prices and associated profit margins, and this is expected to continue in the foreseeable future. Until industry margins recover, service providers have less incentive to install new equipment, including many of our communications products. Ultimately, should long-term expectations for Internet growth and bandwidth demand not be realized, our business would be significantly harmed.


Shifts In Industry-wide Demands And Inventories Could Result In Significant Inventory Write-downs.


The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage production and inventory levels closely. We evaluate our ending inventories on a quarterly basis for excess quantities, impairment of value and obsolescence. This evaluation includes analysis of sales levels by product and projections of future demand based upon input received from our customers, sales team and management estimates. If inventories on hand are in excess of demand, or if they are greater than 12-months old, appropriate reserves are provided. In addition, we write off inventories that are considered obsolete based upon changes in customer demand, manufacturing process changes that result in existing inventory obsolescence or new product introductions, which eliminate demand for existing products. Remaining inventory balances are adjusted to approximate the lower of our manufacturing cost or market value.


In fiscal 2002, EMCORE recorded a $7.7 million inventory charge for excess raw material and finished goods inventory that EMCORE believed it was carrying as a result of market conditions. In fiscal 2003, EMCORE recorded a $2.0 million inventory charge related to certain transceiver devices that were later determined to be non-saleable because of design modifications. If future demand or market conditions are less favorable than our estimates, additional inventory write-downs may be required. We cannot assure investors that obsolete or excess inventories, which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed, will not affect us beyond the inventory charges that we have already taken.


The Time And Costs Of Developing New Products May Exceed Our Budget And Our Products May Not Be Commercially Successful.


We continue to introduce a number of new products, and expect to be introducing additional new products in the future. The commercialization of our new products involves substantial expenditures in R&D, production, and marketing. We may be unable to successfully design or manufacture these new products and may have difficulty penetrating new markets.


Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required and the costs involved in achieving certain research, development, and engineering objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated product development schedules may be extended. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could suffer if we incur budget overruns or delays in our R&D efforts.


We May Engage In Acquisitions That May Effect Our Operating Results, Dilute Our Shareholders, and/or Cause Us To Incur Debt.


We may pursue acquisitions to acquire new technologies, products or service offerings. Future acquisitions by us may involve the following:


·   use of significant amounts of cash; 
·   potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities on potentially unfavorable items; and 
·   incurrence of debt on potentially unfavorable terms, as well as amortization expense related to other intangible assets. 



In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:


·   inability to achieve anticipated synergies; 
·   difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company; 
·   diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 
·   risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and 
·   potential loss of key employees of the acquired company or of EMCORE. 



From time to time, we have engaged in discussions with acquisition candidates regarding potential acquisitions of product lines, technologies and businesses. If acquisitions occur, we cannot be certain that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected.


In the past several years we have completed several major acquisitions, which have reoriented EMCORE's strategy and broadened our product lines within our target markets. However, if customer demand in these markets does not meet current expectations, our revenues could be significantly reduced, and we could suffer a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


Our Acquisitions Place A Strain On Our Resources.


We are in a dynamic business and certain of our larger acquisitions over the past several years have presented many challenges. These acquisitions have placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, financial, sales, and other employees, as well as on our internal systems and controls. If we are unable to effectively manage multiple facilities and a joint venture in geographically distant locations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.


Our Industry Is Rapidly Changing.


The compound semiconductor industry is rapidly changing due to, among other things, continuous technological improvements in products and evolving industry standards. This industry is marked by the continuous introduction of new products and increased capacity for services similar to those provided by us. Future technological advances in the compound semiconductor industry may result in the availability of new products or increase the efficiency of existing products. If a technology becomes available that is more cost effective or creates a superior product, we may be unable to access such technology or its use may involve substantial capital expenditures, which we may be unable to finance. There can be no assurance that existing, proposed or as yet undeveloped technologies will not render our technology less profitable or that we will have available the financial and other resources necessary to compete effectively against companies possessing such technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt to technological changes or offer competitive products on a timely or cost effective basis.


The Markets In Which We Compete Are Highly Competitive. An Increase In Competition Would Limit Our Ability To Maintain Or Increase Our Market Share.


We face substantial competition from a number of companies, many of which have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing and technical resources. Larger-sized competitors could spend more on R&D, which could give those competitors an advantage in meeting customer demand. We expect that existing and new competitors will improve the design of their existing products and will introduce new products with enhanced performance characteristics. The introduction of new products or more efficient production of existing products by our competitors could result in price reductions and increases in expenses, and reduce market acceptance of our products, which could diminish our market share and gross margins.


We Face Intense and Predatory Competition in Certain Markets. 


The compound semiconductor industry has been undergoing a period of significant consolidation, and we believe that some of our competitors have engaged in below-cost sales and other predatory conduct in order to preserve revenues and/or drive their competitors out of business.  As part of our strategy to achieve profitable growth, we may be unable to win future business from customers who elect to buy from such predatory companies.  As a result, our revenues may decline as we focus on profitable business opportunities (by not choosing to bid on orders with negative gross margins), and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially and adversely impacted. 


We May Not Respond Effectively to Increased Competition Caused by Industry Volatility and Consolidation. 


Our business could be seriously harmed if we do not compete effectively. We face competitive challenges, especially from Asia, that are likely to arise from a number of factors, including industry volatility resulting from rapid product development cycles; increasing price competition due to maturation of technologies; industry consolidation resulting in competitors with greater financial, marketing, and technical resources; the emergence of new competitors in Asia with lower cost structures and competitive offerings; and greater competition for fewer customers as a result of consolidation in our sales channels. 


Fluctuations In Our Quarterly Operating Results May Negatively Impact Our Stock Price.


Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors particular to EMCORE and the compound semiconductor industry.  Not all of these factors are in our control.  They can include:


·   the volume and timing of orders and payments for our products; 
·   the timing of our announcements and introduction of new products and of similar announcements by our competitors; 
·   downturns in the market for our customers’ products; 
·   regional economic conditions, particularly in locations (such as the United States and Asia) where we derive a significant portion of our revenues;
 
·   price volatility in the compound semiconductor industry; and 
·   changes in product mix. 



These factors may cause our operating results for future periods to be below the expectations of analysts and investors. This may cause a decline in the price of our common stock.


General Electric Lighting, Our Joint Venture Partner, Who Has Majority Ownership and Control Of GELcore, May Make Decisions That We Do Not Agree With And That Adversely Affect Our Net Income.


We have a 49% minority interest in our GELcore joint venture with General Electric Lighting. A board of managers governs GELcore with representatives from both General Electric Lighting and EMCORE. Many fundamental decisions must be approved by both parties, which means we will be unable to direct the operation and direction of GELcore without the agreement of General Electric Lighting. If we are unable to agree on important issues with General Electric Lighting, GELcore's business may be delayed or interrupted, which may, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


We have devoted and may be required to continue to devote significant funds and technologies to GELcore to develop and enhance its products. In addition, GELcore requires that some of our employees devote much of their time to its projects. This places a strain on our management, scientific, financial, and sales employees. If GELcore is unsuccessful in developing and marketing their products, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.


General Electric Lighting and EMCORE have agreed that our joint venture will be the sole vehicle for each party's participation in the solid state lighting market. General Electric Lighting and EMCORE have also agreed to several limitations during the life of the venture and thereafter relating how each of us can make use of the joint venture's technology. One consequence of these limitations is that in certain circumstances, such as a material default by us or certain sales of our interest in the joint venture, we would not be permitted to use the joint venture's technology to compete in the solid state lighting market.


Since an Increasing Percentage of Our Revenues Are From Foreign Sales, Various International Commercial Risks May Disproportionately Affect Our Revenues.


Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 29% of our revenues in fiscal 2004, 27% of our revenues in fiscal 2003, and 16% of our revenues in fiscal 2002.  Sales to customers in Asia represent the majority of our international sales.  We believe that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues.  Because of this, the following international commercial risks may disproportionately affect our revenues:


·   political and economic instability may inhibit export of our devices and limit potential customers’ access to U.S. dollars in a country or region in which our customers are located;
 
·   we may experience difficulties in the timeliness of collection of foreign accounts receivable and be forced to write off receivables from foreign customers;
 
·   tariffs and other barriers may make our devices less cost competitive; 
·   the laws of certain foreign countries may not adequately protect our trade secrets and intellectual property or may be burdensome to comply with;
 
·   potentially adverse tax consequences to our customers may make our devices not cost competitive; and 
·   currency fluctuations may impact foreign investment in U.S. companies, including EMCORE, or affect overseas demand for our products. 



We Will Lose Sales If We Are Unable To Obtain Government Authorization To Export Our Products.


Exports of our products to certain international destinations (such as the People's Republic of China, Argentina, Brazil, India, Russia, Malaysia, and Taiwan) may require pre-shipment authorization from U.S. export control authorities, including the U.S. Departments of Commerce and State. Authorization may be conditioned on end-use restrictions. Failure to receive these authorizations may materially and adversely affect our revenues and in turn our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from international sales.


Our communications satellite business is particularly sensitive to export control issues. All of our commercially-available solar cell products are export-controlled, and are currently subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Commerce.  Many of our customers are located in countries (such as Russia, India, Argentina and Brazil) for which export licenses are required.  Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming.  Failure to obtain export licenses for these shipments could significantly reduce our revenue, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


Our Operating Results Could Be Harmed If We Lose Access To Sole Or Limited Sources Of Materials Or Services.


We currently obtain some components and services for our products from limited or single sources. We generally do not carry significant inventories of any raw materials. Because we often do not account for a significant part of our vendors’ business, we may not have access to sufficient capacity from these vendors in periods of high demand. In addition, we risk having important suppliers terminate product lines, change business focus, or even go out of business. If we were to change any of our limited or sole source vendors, we would be required to re-qualify each new vendor. Re-qualification could prevent or delay product shipments that could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, our reliance on these vendors may negatively affect our production if the components vary in quality or quantity. If we are unable to obtain timely deliveries of sufficient components of acceptable quality or if the prices of components for which we do not have alternative sources increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.


Our Products Are Difficult To Manufacture And Our Production Could Be Disrupted If We Are Unable To Avoid Manufacturing Difficulties. 


We manufacture many of our wafers and devices in our production facilities. Difficulties in the production process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers and devices to be rejected. Lower-than-expected production yields may delay shipments or result in unexpected levels of warranty claims, either of which can materially and adversely affect our operating results. We have experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields in the past, particularly in pre-production and upon initial commencement of full production volumes, which have adversely affected our gross margins. Because the majority of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, our production yields are critical to our financial results. Because we manufacture many of our products internally, any interruption in manufacturing resulting from fire, natural disaster, equipment failures, or otherwise could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


We Face Lengthy Sales And Qualifications Cycles For Our Products And, In Many Cases, Must Invest A Substantial Amount Of Time And Funds Before We Receive Orders.


Nearly all of our products are tested by current and potential customers to determine whether they meet customer or industry specifications. During a given qualification period, we invest significant resources and allocate substantial production capacity to the manufacture of these new products, prior to any commitment to purchase by customers and without generating significant revenues from the qualification process. If we are unable to meet applicable specifications, or do not receive sufficient orders to profitably use the allocated production capacity, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.


Our historical and future budgets for operating expenses, capital expenditures, operating leases, and service contracts are based upon our assumptions as to the anticipated market acceptance of our products. Because of the lengthy lead time required for product development and the changes in technology that typically occur during such period, it is difficult to accurately estimate customer demand for a given product. If our products do not achieve expected customer demand, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.


If Our Contract Manufacturers Fail To Deliver Quality Products At Reasonable Prices And On A Timely Basis, Our Results Of Operations And Financial Condition Could Be Materially Affected.


We are increasing our use of contract manufacturers located outside of the U.S. as a less-expensive alternative to performing our own manufacturing of certain products. If these contract manufacturers do not fulfill their obligations to us, or if we do not properly manage these relationships and the transition of production to these contract manufacturers, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, import/export controls, cost escalations and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers.


Our supply chain and manufacturing process relies on accurate forecasting to provide us with optimal margins and profitability. Because of market uncertainties, forecasting is becoming much more difficult. In addition, as we come to rely more heavily on contract manufacturers, we may have fewer personnel with expertise to manage these third-party arrangements.


We Have Continuing Concerns Regarding The Manufacture, Profitability Quality, And Distribution Of Our Products.
 
    EMCORE’s success depends upon our ability to timely deliver high quality products to our customers at acceptable cost. As a technology company, we constantly encounter quality, volume, price and cost concerns.  These factors have caused considerable strain on our execution capabilities and our customer relations. Currently, we are (a) having difficulty responding to customer delivery expectations for some of our products, (b) unable to fulfill customer demand for some of our products, (c) experiencing yield and quality problems, and (d) expending additional funds and other resources to respond to these execution challenges.  We are currently losing additional revenue opportunities due to these concerns.  We are also, in the short-term, diverting resources from R&D and other functions to assist with resolving these matters.  If we do not improve our performance in all of these areas, our operating results will be harmed, the commercial viability of new products may be challenged and our customers may choose to reduce their orders of our products and purchase additional products from our competitors.  Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by these factors.  


We Could Incur Significant Costs To Correct Defective Products. 


Our products are rigorously tested for quality both internally and by our customers.  Nevertheless, our products do, and may continue to, fail to meet customer expectations from time-to-time.  Also, not all defects are immediately detectible.  Failures could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing. In either case, we could incur significant costs to repair and/or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. We have experienced such failures in the past and remain exposed to such failures.  In some cases, product redesigns and/or rework may be required to correct a defect, and such occurrences could adversely impact future business with effected customers.  Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by any unexpected warranty costs.


Industry Demand For Skilled Employees (Particularly Scientific And Technical Personnel With Compound Semiconductor Experience) Exceeds The Number Of Skilled Personnel Available.


Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain certain key personnel, including scientific, operational and management personnel. The competition for attracting and retaining these employees (especially scientists and technical personnel) is intense. Because of this competition for skilled employees, we may be unable to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees in the future. If we are unable to retain our skilled employees and attract additional qualified employees to the extent necessary to keep up with our business demands and changes, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.


Protecting Our Trade Secrets And Obtaining Patent Protection Is Critical To Our Ability To Effectively Compete For Business.


Our success and competitive position depend on protecting our trade secrets and other intellectual property. Our strategy is to rely both on trade secrets and patents to protect our manufacturing and sales processes and products. Reliance on trade secrets is only an effective business practice insofar as trade secrets remain undisclosed and a proprietary product or process is not reverse engineered or independently developed. We take certain measures to protect our trade secrets, including executing non-disclosure agreements with our employees, our joint venture partner, customers, and suppliers. If parties breach these agreements or the measures we take are not properly implemented, we may not have an adequate remedy. Disclosure of our trade secrets or reverse engineering of our proprietary products, processes, or devices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


There is also no assurance that any patents will afford us commercially significant protection of our technologies or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. We are actively pursuing patents on some of our recent inventions. In addition, the laws of certain other countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws.


Our Failure To Obtain Or Maintain The Right To Use Certain Intellectual Property May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results.


The compound semiconductor, optoelectronics and fiber optic communications industries are characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time we have received, and may receive in the future, notice of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights and licensing offers to commercialize third party patent rights. Although we are not currently involved in any litigation relating to our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that:


·   infringement claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) will not be asserted against us or that such claims will not be successful;
 
·   future assertions will not result in an injunction against the sale of infringing products or otherwise significantly impair our business and results of operations;
 
·   any patent owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged; or 
·   we will not be required to obtains licenses, the expense of which may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. 



In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources, may be necessary to defend our rights or defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others.


Our Management's Stock Ownership Gives Them The Power To Control Business Affairs And Prevent A Takeover That Could Be Beneficial To Unaffiliated Shareholders.


Certain members of our management, specifically Thomas J. Russell, Chairman of our Board, Reuben F. Richards, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer and a director, and Robert Louis-Dreyfus, a director, are former members of Jesup & Lamont Merchant Partners, L.L.C. They collectively beneficially own more than 20% of our common stock. Accordingly, such persons will continue to hold sufficient voting power to control our business and affairs for the foreseeable future. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.


Unsuccessful Control Of The Hazardous Raw Materials Used In Our Manufacturing Process Could Result In Costly Remediation Fees, Penalties Or Damages Under Environmental And Safety Regulations.


Some of our production activities involve the use of certain hazardous raw materials, including, but not limited to, ammonia, gallium, phosphine and arsine. If our control systems are unsuccessful in preventing a release of these materials into the environment or other adverse environmental conditions occur, we could experience interruptions in our operations and incur substantial remediation and other costs. Failure to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


Compliance Obligations Will Cause Us To Incur Increased Costs.


Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies over the past several years, including certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have resulted in additional internal and external expenses required to respond to these new requirements. In particular, we will incur additional SG&A expense as we implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. Compliance with these new rules requires management to devote substantial time and attention to accounting and other compliance matters, which can be disruptive to product development, marketing and other business activities. Furthermore, these new requirements may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers, which could harm our business.


We are currently performing the system and process evaluation required to ensure compliance as of September 30, 2005 with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. While we currently anticipate that we will timely complete all such actions, we cannot at this time provide absolute assurance that all such actions will be timely completed, although possible consequences of failure include, sanction or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities Exchange Commission or the Nasdaq National Market (on which our common stock trades), and inability to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2005. Any such action could effect our stock price.



We May Have Difficulty Obtaining Director And Officer Liability Insurance In Acceptable Amounts For Acceptable Rates Which Could Impair Our Ability To Recruit and Retain Qualified Officers and Directors.


Like most other public companies, we carry insurance protecting our officers and directors against claims relating to the conduct of our business. Historically, this insurance covered, among other things, the costs incurred by companies and their management to defend against and resolve claims relating to management conduct and results of operations, such as securities class action claims. These claims typically are extremely expensive to defend against and resolve. Hence, as is customary, we purchase and maintain insurance to cover some of these costs. We pay significant premiums to acquire and maintain this insurance, which is provided by third-party insurers, and we agree to underwrite a portion of such exposures under the terms of the insurance coverage. Over the last several years, the premiums we have paid for this insurance have increased substantially. One consequence of the current economic environment and decline in stock prices has been a substantial increase in the number of securities class actions and similar claims brought against public corporations and their management. Consequently, insurers providing director and officer liability insurance have in recent periods sharply increased the premiums they charge for this insurance, raised retentions (that is, the amount of liability that a company is required to pay to defend and resolve a claim before any applicable insurance is provided), and limited the amount of insurance they will provide. Moreover, insurers typically provide only one-year policies.


Each year we negotiate with insurers to renew our director and officer insurance. Particularly in the current economic environment, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain sufficient director and officer liability insurance coverage in the future at acceptable rates and with acceptable deductibles and other limitations. Failure to obtain such insurance could materially harm our financial condition in the event that we are required to defend against and resolve any future securities class actions or other claims made against us or our management arising from the conduct of our operations. Further, the inability to obtain such insurance in adequate amounts may impair our future ability to retain and recruit qualified officers and directors.


Our Business Or Our Stock Price Could Be Adversely Affected By Issuance Of Preferred Stock.


Our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 5,882,352 shares of preferred stock with such dividend rates, liquidation preferences, voting rights, redemption and conversion terms and privileges as our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may determine. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in a decrease in the value or market price of our common stock, or our board of directors could use the preferred stock to delay or discourage hostile bids for control of us in which shareholders may receive premiums for their common stock or to make the possible sale of EMCORE or the removal of our management more difficult. The issuance of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock and may depress the price of our common stock.


Certain Provisions Of New Jersey Law And Our Charter May Make A Takeover Of EMCORE Difficult Even If Such Takeover Could Be Beneficial To Some Of Our Shareholders.


New Jersey law and our certificate of incorporation, as amended, contain certain provisions that could delay or prevent a takeover attempt that our shareholders may consider in their best interests. Our board of directors is divided into three classes. Directors are elected to serve staggered three-year terms and are not subject to removal except for cause by the vote of the holders of at least 80% of our capital stock. In addition, approval by the holders of 80% of our voting stock is required for certain business combinations unless these transactions meet certain fair price criteria and procedural requirements or are approved by two-thirds of our continuing directors. We may in the future adopt other measures that may have the effect of delaying or discouraging an unsolicited takeover, even if the takeover were at a premium price or favored by a majority of unaffiliated shareholders. Certain of these measures may be adopted without any further vote or action by our shareholders and this could depress the price of our common stock.


The Price Of Our Common Stock May Fluctuate Widely In The Future.


EMCORE’s stock price has experienced large swings over the last year, and may continue to fluctuate widely in the future. In fiscal 2004, our stock price was as high as $7.93 per share and as low as $1.90 per share. Volatility in the price of our common stock may be caused by other factors outside of our control, and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results.


Factors such as quarterly fluctuations in financial results, the estimates and projections of industry analysts, and financial performance and other activities of other publicly traded companies in the semiconductor industry could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Similarly, the NASDAQ National Market has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance.
 