
Item 1.  Business


Company Overview

          EMCORE Corporation,  headquartered in Somerset,  New Jersey,  develops
and   manufactures   compound   semiconductor   products   to   advance   global
communications  and solid  state  lighting  applications.  Established  in 1984,
EMCORE offers a diverse portfolio of compound semiconductor products, including:
optical interconnects and devices for data and  telecommunications  applications
(such as Gigabit Ethernet,  Fibre Channel,  Infiniband(SM),  OC-192,  OC-768 and
OC-48), electronic materials for wireless and data and telecommunications, solar
cells for satellite  communications  and metal organic chemical vapor deposition
(MOCVD)  tools  for the  growth  of  optoelectronic  materials,  including  high
brightness light emitting diodes (HB LEDs), lasers, RF and electronic materials,
solar cells and  magnetoresistive  (MR)  sensors.  EMCORE's  product  philosophy
embodies state of the art technology,  material  science  expertise and a shared
vision of our customers'  goals and objectives to be leaders and pioneers in the
rapidly growing world of compound semiconductors.

          Some of our customers  include Agilent  Technologies  Ltd., AMP, Inc.,
Anadigics Inc., Blaze Networking  Products,  Boeing-Spectrolab,  Corning,  Inc.,
General  Motors  Corp.,  Hewlett  Packard Co.,  Honeywell  Int'l Inc.,  Infineon
Technologies AG, Loral Space & Communications Ltd., Lucent  Technologies,  Inc.,
LumiLeds  Lighting  (a  joint  venture  between  Philips  Lighting  and  Agilent
Technologies),  Motorola,  Inc., Nortel Networks Corp.,  Siemens AG's Osram GmbH
subsidiary,  TriQuint  Semiconductor,  Inc. and more than a dozen of the largest
electronics  manufacturers in Japan. For further information about EMCORE, visit
http://www.emcore.com.


                                                                               3


<PAGE>


Industry Overview

          Recent  advances in  information  technologies  have created a growing
need for  efficient,  high-performance  electronic  systems that operate at very
high frequencies,  have increased storage capacity and computational and display
capabilities and can be produced  cost-effectively in commercial volumes. In the
past,  electronic  systems  manufacturers  have  relied on  advances  in silicon
semiconductor  technology  to meet many of these  demands.  However,  the newest
generation  of  high-performance   electronic  and  optoelectronic  applications
requires certain functions that are generally not achievable using silicon-based
components.

          Compound semiconductors have emerged as an enabling technology to meet
the complex requirements of today's advanced information systems.  Many compound
semiconductor  materials have unique physical properties that allow electrons to
move at least four times faster through them than through silicon-based devices.
Advantages of compound semiconductor devices over silicon devices include:

          o    higher operating speeds;

          o    lower power consumption;

          o    reduced noise and distortion; and

          o    light emitting and detecting optoelectronic properties.

          Compound  semiconductor  devices  can be  used to  perform  individual
functions as discrete  devices,  such as vertical cavity surface emitting lasers
(VCSELs),  photodetectors, RF and electronic materials, solar cells, HB LEDs and
MR sensors.  Compound semiconductor devices can also be combined into integrated
circuits,  such as transmitters,  receivers and alphanumeric displays.  Although
compound  semiconductors  are  generally  more  expensive  to  manufacture  than
silicon-based devices,  electronics  manufacturers are increasingly  integrating
compound  semiconductor  devices into their  products in order to achieve higher
performance  in  applications  targeted  for a wide  variety of  markets.  These
include  satellite  communications,  data  communications,   telecommunications,
wireless  communications,  consumer and  automotive  electronics,  computers and
peripherals, and lighting.

          The  following  factors  have  resulted  in an  increased  demand  for
compound  semiconductor  products  and systems  that enable  electronic  systems
manufacturers to reach the market faster with large volumes of  high-performance
products and applications:

          o    widespread  deployment of fiber optic networks and the increasing
               use of optical systems within these networks;

          o    replacement of electrical  backplanes  with  laser-based  optical
               backplanes in data and telecommunication systems;

          o    launch of new  wireless  services and  wireless  high-speed  data
               systems;

          o    rapid build-out of satellite communications systems;

          o    increasing  use of infrared  emitters  and optical  detectors  in
               computer systems;

          o    emergence of advanced consumer electronics applications,  such as
               DVDs and flat panel displays;

          o    increasing  use  of   high-performance   electronic   devices  in
               automobiles; and

          o    the anticipated conversion to HB LEDs from incandescent,  halogen
               and compact fluorescent lighting.


                                                                               4


<PAGE>


          The following  chart  summarizes  the principal  markets,  examples of
applications for compound  semiconductor  devices,  products incorporating these
devices and certain benefits and characteristics of these devices.
<TABLE>

<CAPTION>

<S>                      <C>                                   <C>                        <C>

     Market              Representative Applications              Products                  Benefits/Characteristics

Data communications      High-speed fiber optic networks        VCSEL and                 Increased network capacity
                           and optical links (including         photodetector             Increased data transmission
                           VSR OC-768, OC-192,                    components and            speeds
                           OC-48, Gigabit Ethernet,               arrays                  Increased bandwidth
                           asynchronous transfer mode           HB LEDs                   Reduced power consumption
                           or ATM, and FibreChannel             Lasers
                           networks)                            RF and electronic
                                                                  materials
                                                                Array transceivers
                                                                Serial transceivers


Wireless                 Cellular telephones                    HB LEDs                   Improved display visibility
communication            Pagers                                 RF and electronic         Improved signal to noise
                         PCS handsets                             materials                 performance
                         Direct broadcast systems               RF and electronic         Lower power consumption
                         PDAs                                     devices                 Increased network capacity
                                                                                          Reduced network congestion
                                                                                          Extended battery life


Telecommunications       High capacity fiber optic trunk        VCSEL components          Increased data transmission
                           lines                                  and arrays                speeds
                         Very Short Reach links                 Lasers                    Increased bandwidth
                                                                RF materials
                                                                Photodiode
                                                                  components and
                                                                  arrays
                                                                Array transceivers
                                                                VSR transponders


Lighting                 Flat panel displays                    HB LEDs                   Lower power consumption
                         Solid state lighting                   Miniature lamps           Longer life
                         Outdoor signage and display
                         Digital readout signals


Satellite                Power modules for satellites           Solar cells               Radiation tolerance
communications           Satellite to ground                    RF materials              Conversion of more light
                           communication                                                    to power than silicon
                                                                                          Reduced launch costs
                                                                                          Increased bandwidth


Automotive electronics   Engine sensors                         MR sensors                Reduced weight
                         Dashboard displays                     HB LEDs                   Lower power consumption
                         Indicator lights                                                 Lower emissions
                         Antilock brake systems


Computers and            Local area networks                    VCSEL components          Increased data transmission speeds
Peripherals              Chip-to-chip and board-to-board          and arrays              Increased bandwidth
                           optical links                        Serial transceivers
                         Computer buses (Infiniband)            Array transceivers


Consumer electronics     DVDs                                   HB LEDs                   Improved display visibility
                         Radios                                 VCSEL components          High-speed data transmission
                         Telephones                               and arrays              Low power requirements
                         Calculators                            Integrated circuits
                         CD-ROMs                                Lasers
</TABLE>


                                                                               5


<PAGE>

Compound Semiconductor Process Technology

          Compound  semiconductors  are  composed  of two or more  elements  and
usually  consist  of a  metal,  such  as  gallium,  aluminum  or  indium,  and a
non-metal,  such as arsenic,  phosphorous or nitrogen.  The resulting  compounds
include gallium arsenide,  indium phosphide,  gallium nitride, indium antimonide
and indium  aluminum  phosphide.  The  performance  characteristics  of compound
semiconductors are dependent on the composition of these compounds.  Many of the
unique properties of compound semiconductor devices are achieved by the layering
of different compound  semiconductor  materials in the same device. This layered
structure  creates an optimal  configuration to permit the emission or detection
of light and the detection of magnetic fields.

          Accordingly,  the  composition  and  properties  of each layer and the
control of the layering process, or epitaxy,  are fundamental to the performance
of advanced electronic and optoelectronic  compound  semiconductor  devices. The
variation of thickness and  composition  of layers  determines the intensity and
color of the light emitted or detected and the  efficiency of power  conversion.
The ability to vary the intensity,  color and the efficiency of light generation
and detection enables compound semiconductor devices to be used in a broad range
of advanced information systems.

          Compound  semiconductor  device  manufacturers  predominantly use four
different  methods to deposit  compound  materials:  (i) molecular beam epitaxy;
(ii) vapor phase  epitaxy;  (iii) liquid phase  epitaxy;  and (iv) metal organic
chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD).  The use of molecular beam epitaxy technology
can yield  wafers  having  high  thickness  uniformity.  Compound  semiconductor
materials   fabricated  using  vapor  phase  epitaxy  or  liquid  phase  epitaxy
technologies often have high electronic and optical properties.  However, due to
the nature of the  underlying  processes,  none of these  methods  can be easily
scaled up to high  volume  production,  which is  necessary  for the  commercial
viability  of  compound   semiconductor   devices.  All  four  methods  used  to
manufacture compound  semiconductor devices pose technical,  training and safety
challenges  that are not  present in the  manufacture  of silicon  devices.  The
production  systems  typically  require  expensive  reactant  materials,  use of
certain  toxic   chemicals   and  tight  control  over  numerous   manufacturing
parameters.  The key  differences  between MOCVD and the three other methods are
that compound  semiconductor  wafers  fabricated using MOCVD generally possess a
better  combination of uniformity and optical and electronic  properties and are
easier to produce in high  volumes  than wafers  manufactured  by the three more
traditional methods.  Currently, MOCVD technology is being used to manufacture a
broad range of compound semiconductor devices.

          Historically, manufacturers that use compound semiconductor devices in
their  products  have met research,  pilot  production  and capacity  needs with
in-house systems and  technologies.  However,  as the need for the production of
commercial volumes of high-performance  compound  semiconductor  devices and the
variety of these devices increase,  manufacturers are often unable to meet these
requirements using inhouse  solutions.  In response to these growing demands for
higher volumes of a broad range of higher performance devices, manufacturers are
increasingly  turning  to  outside  vendors  to meet  their  needs for  compound
semiconductor wafers and devices.



The EMCORE Solution

          EMCORE provides a broad range of compound  semiconductor  products and
services intended to meet its customers' diverse technology requirements. EMCORE
has developed  extensive  materials science  expertise,  process  technology and
MOCVD  production  systems to address its customers' needs and believes that its
proprietary  TurboDisc(R)  deposition  technology makes possible one of the most
cost-effective  production  processes for the commercial  volume  manufacture of
high-performance  compound  semiconductor  wafers  and  devices.  This  platform
technology  provides the basis for the  production  of various types of compound
semiconductor wafers and devices and enables EMCORE to address the critical need
of manufacturers to cost-effectively  get to the market faster with high volumes
of new and improved high-performance products.


                                                                               6


<PAGE>


          EMCORE's compound semiconductor products and services include:

          o    Development of compound semiconductor materials and processes;

          o    Design and development of devices;

          o    Fiber optic  components and modules,  including  transceivers and
               transponders;

          o    VCSEL devices and PIN photodiodes,  including bare die,  packaged
               components and optical subassemblies;

          o    Electronic  and RF materials,  including  pHEMTs,  HBTs and FETs;
               and,

          o    MOCVD   production   tools  for  the   manufacture  of  epitaxial
               materials,  including GaAs, AlGaAs, InP, InGaP, InGaAlP, InGaAsP,
               GaN, InGaN, AlGaN, and SiC

          Customers  can  take  advantage  of  EMCORE's  vertically   integrated
approach by purchasing  custom-designed  wafers and devices from EMCORE, or they
can manufacture  their own devices in-house using a TurboDisc  production system
configured to their specific needs.

Strategy

          EMCORE's  objective is to  capitalize on its position in MOCVD process
technology  and  production  systems to become the leading  supplier of compound
semiconductor  wafers,  devices  and  production  systems.  The key  elements of
EMCORE's strategy include:

          Apply  EMCORE's Core  Materials  and  Manufacturing  Expertise  Across
Multiple Product Applications. EMCORE continually leverages its proprietary core
technology to develop compound  semiconductor products for multiple applications
in a variety of markets.  These activities  include  developing new products for
targeted   applications  as  well  as  expanding   existing  products  into  new
applications.  For example,  EMCORE has introduced VCSELs and photodetectors for
communications  products and through its joint  venture  with  General  Electric
Lighting, HB LEDs for broader lighting applications.

          Target  High  Growth  Market  Opportunities.  EMCORE's  strategy is to
target high growth market  opportunities  where performance  characteristics and
high  volume  production   efficiencies  can  give  compound   semiconductors  a
competitive  advantage over other devices.  Historically,  while technologically
superior, compound semiconductors have not been widely deployed because they are
more  expensive  to  manufacture  than  siliconbased  semiconductors  and other
existing solutions.  EMCORE believes that as compound  semiconductor  production
costs are reduced, new customers will be compelled to use these products because
of their higher performance characteristics. For example, EMCORE has reduced the
average cost of compound  semiconductor solar cells to the point where customers
are replacing  silicon-based  solar cells because of the compound  semiconductor
solar cells' higher overall efficiency, better end-of-life performance and lower
weight.

          Strategic   Acquisitions  and   Partnerships   with  Industry  Leading
Companies.  EMCORE seeks to identify and develop  long-term  relationships  with
leading  companies in each of the  industries it serves.  EMCORE  develops these
relationships  in a number of ways that include  long-term,  high-volume  supply
agreements,  joint ventures,  acquisitions and other arrangements.  For example,
EMCORE  entered  into a joint  venture with  General  Electric  Lighting for the
development  and  marketing  of white  light and  colored  HB LED  products  for
automotive, traffic, flat panel display and other lighting applications.  EMCORE
intends  to  actively  seek  similar  strategic  relationships  with  other  key
customers and industry participants in order to further expand its technological
and production base.

          Continue Investment in Research and Development to Maintain Technology
Leadership.  Through substantial investment in research and development,  EMCORE
seeks to expand its  leadership  position in compound  semiconductor  production
systems,  wafers and  devices.  EMCORE  works  with its  customers  to  identify
specific   performance  criteria  and  uses  this  information  to  enhance  the
performance  of its  production  systems  and to further  expand its process and
materials  science  expertise,   including  the  development  of  new  low-cost,


                                                                               7


<PAGE>


high-volume  wafers  and  devices  for  its  customers.  In  addition,  EMCORE's
development efforts are focused on continually  lowering the production costs of
its products.

Products

MOCVD Tools

          EMCORE  is  a  leading   supplier  of  MOCVD  compound   semiconductor
production  systems,  with more than 400  systems  shipped  since  inception  in
October  1984.  EMCORE  believes  that its  TurboDisc  production  systems offer
significant  ownership  advantages  over  competing  systems  and  that the high
throughput  capabilities  of its TurboDisc  MOCVD tools make  possible  superior
reproducibility  of  thickness,  composition,  electronic  properties  and layer
accuracy required for electronic and optoelectronic  devices. Each system can be
customized  for the  customer's  throughput,  wafer size and  process  chemistry
requirements.   EMCORE's   production  tools  also  achieve  a  high  degree  of
reliability  with an average  uptime,  based on customer data, of  approximately
90%.

          EMCORE  believes its  TurboDisc  MOCVD tools enable the lowest cost of
ownership for the  manufacture of compound  semiconductor  materials.  The major
components of the cost of ownership include yield, throughput,  direct costs and
capital  costs.  Yield  primarily  relates to  material  uniformity,  which is a
function of the precision of the physical and chemical processes by which atomic
layers are  deposited.  Throughput,  the volume of wafers  produced  per unit of
time,  includes both the time required for a process cycle and the handling time
between process steps.  Direct costs include  consumables  used in manufacturing
and  processing,  maintenance  and spare parts and the clean room space required
for  the  equipment.   Capital  costs  include  the  cost  of  acquisition   and
installation of the process equipment.

          EMCORE's proprietary TurboDisc technology utilizes a unique high speed
rotating   disk  in  a  stainless   steel   growth   chamber   with   integrated
vacuum-compatible  loading chambers. To produce a wafer, a bare substrate,  such
as gallium arsenide,  sapphire or germanium, is placed on a wafer carrier in the
TurboDisc  growth  chamber  and  subjected  to  high  temperatures.  Based  on a
predetermined formula, metal organic gases are released into the growth chamber.
These  gases  decompose  on  the  hot,  rapidly  spinning  wafer.  Semiconductor
materials are then  deposited on the substrate in a highly uniform  manner.  The
resulting  wafer  thus  carries  one  or  more  ultra-thin  layers  of  compound
semiconductor  material  such as  gallium  arsenide,  gallium  nitride or indium
phosphide.  The TurboDisc  technology not only produces uniformity of deposition
across the wafer,  but also offers  flexibility  for diverse  applications  with
improved  material results and increased  production rates. The unique precision
control of reactant gas flow in the TurboDisc  technology  platform allows users
to scale easily from research to commercial volumes with  substantially  reduced
time and effort. Upon removal from the growth chamber,  the wafer is transferred
to a device  processing  facility  for various  steps such as  photolithography,
etching, masking,  metallization and dicing. Upon completion of these steps, the
devices are then sent for packaging and incorporation in the customer's product.

          During  fiscal year 2001,  EMCORE  announced  several new  application
specific TurboDisc reactors:

          o    The  Enterprise  450 TurboDisc  reactor with cassette to cassette
               wafer  handling  and  advanced  temperature  control  is  a  high
               efficiency  reactor designed  primarily for electronic  materials
               applications  (configurations  are also available for LEDs, solar
               cells and optoelectronic applications);

          o    The  Enterprise  300  GaNzilla  is designed  for the  high-volume
               commercial manufacture of high brightness blue and green LEDs and
               GaN electronic materials;

          o    The Enterprise 300 LDM is designed for the high-volume commercial
               manufacture   of   laser   diodes   for   telecommunication   and
               datacommunication applications; and

          o    The Discovery 180 SpectraGaN is a second  generation  SpectraBlue
               tool with higher  throughput and greater  efficiency used for the
               commercial manufacture of high brightness blue and green LEDs and
               GaN based electronics.


                                                                               8


<PAGE>


          EMCORE's  TurboDisc  product line now consists of the following  MOCVD
tools:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                Tool                                                     Applications

<S>                                                          <C>

Discovery Research and Development (RD)                      Customer determined

Discovery 180 LDM (Laser Diode Machine)                      VCSELs, laser diodes, AlGaAs and InGaAs detectors

Discovery 180 SpectraBlue / Discovery 180 SpectraGaN         Blue and Green LEDs, blue lasers, GaN electronic devices

Enterprise 300 LDM                                           Laser diodes

Enterprise 300 GaNzilla                                      Blue and green LEDs, blue lasers, GaN electronic devices

Enterprise 400 Gold                                          High-Brightness red, orange and yellow LEDs

Enterprise 400 EM                                            PHEMTs, HBTs, FETs, E-mode devices

Enterprise 400 SC                                            Solar cells

Enterprise 450 EM                                            Electronic materials such as PHEMTs, HBTs, FETs,
                                                               E-mode devices,

Enterprise 450 LED                                           High-Brightness red, orange and yellow LEDs

Enterprise 450 SC                                            Solar cells

</TABLE>


          EMCORE's next generation of TurboDisc products is being designed to
provide a number of innovations including:

     o    new reactor design to improve source efficiency;
     o    digital control system to reduce electronic noise;
     o    modular component design to simplify component and design upgrades;
     o    improved   temperature   control  with  the  ability  to  control  the
          deposition temperature to within 1 to 2 degrees Celsius; and
     o    greater up time and lower maintenance intervals.

          During the first  quarter of fiscal 2002,  EMCORE  signed an agreement
with LumiLeds Lighting, a joint venture between Agilent Technologies and Philips
Lighting,  for the supply of MOCVD  tools to be used in the  production  of high
brightness gallium nitride (GaN) LEDs.


Optical Devices

          EMCORE manufactures optical devices employing VCSEL-based  technology.
Vertical cavity surface-emitting  lasers (VCSELs) are microscopic  semiconductor
lasers  that emit  light  from the top  surface of the chip.  They  combine  the
ability  of  batch  process  and  on-wafer  tests  like  LEDs  and the  superior
electro-optical  performance of traditional  edge-emitting  lasers. In addition,
the cylindrical laser beam profile allows an easy and efficient  coupling of the
light into a multi-mode fiber. The  manufacturability  for both wafer processing
and packaging enables a cost-effective  high-bandwidth  fiberoptic communication
solution.  Therefore,  VCSEL-based optical devices offer significant  advantages
over traditional laser diodes used in fiber optic communications, including:

     o    greater control over beam size and wavelength;
     o    reduced manufacturing complexity and packaging costs;
     o    lower power consumption; and
     o    higher frequency performance.


          There  are two  major  fabrication  processes  for  VCSELs,  either by
ion-implantation or selective  oxidation.  Compared to implant VCSELs, the oxide
VCSELs  provide many  superior  characteristics,  which  include  lower  turn-on
current,  higher  efficiency,  higher speed,  better  performance  linearity and
stability,  and better  reliability.  Currently,  the  implant  VCSELs are still
widely used for applications with transmission speeds up to 1 Gbps. However, the
oxide VCSEL is the  technology of choice for  applications  requiring data rates
higher  than  2  Gbps,  which  is the  trend  in the  datacom  industry.  EMCORE
established a consistent manufacturing procedure for the oxide VCSEL fabrication
process despite the inherent challenges of this manufacturing technique compared
to  the  implant  process.  EMCORE  believes  that  it is the  only  high-volume
manufacturer for oxide VCSELs.


                                                                               9


<PAGE>


          EMCORE's  strategy is to capitalize  on its oxide VCSEL  manufacturing
platform and expertise, by providing the industry with 1 Gbps, 2.5 Gbps, 10 Gbps
(OC-192),   and  40  Gbps  (OC-768)  solutions  through  single-channel  serial,
multi-channel parallel or wavelength-divisional multiplexing approaches.

          Leading electronic systems manufacturers are integrating VCSELs into a
broad  array of  end-market  applications  including  Internet  access,  digital
cross-connect  telecommunications  switches,  Infiniband  optical bus, and fiber
optic  switching  and  routing,  such as  Gigabit  Ethernet,  and  storage  area
networks.

          EMCORE's Optical Device division,  located in Albuquerque,  New Mexico
is  primarily  dedicated  to the  research  and  development  of enabling  VCSEL
technologies.   EMCORE's  optical  device  product  line  has  achieved  several
significant  milestones since it commenced commercial  production of VCSEL-based
products:


     o    February 1998 - EMCORE announced its first commercial high speed VCSEL
          laser operating at 1.25 Gbps;

     o    December 1998 - EMCORE  introduced its second VCSEL  product,  a VCSEL
          array;

     o    March 2000 - EMCORE debuted the industry's first  commercial  2.5Gbps,
          850nm oxide VCSEL employing its patented OxideGuide(TM) technology;

     o    January 2000 - EMCORE entered into a three-year  supply agreement with
          Agilent, a leading supplier of fiber optic transceivers and integrated
          circuits  for  infrastructure  products for the  Internet.  Under this
          agreement,  EMCORE  manufactures  VCSEL  arrays  for  use in  parallel
          optical  transceivers.  EMCORE began  shipping  commercial  product in
          December 2000;

     o    August 2000 - EMCORE announced the availability of its first 850nm 1x4
          and 1x12 Oxide VCSEL arrays and its high speed gallium arsenide (GaAs)
          photodetector  arrays.  The  1x4  array  is  capable  of up to 10 Gbps
          transmission  speeds,  while  the  1x12  has a  transmission  speed of
          30Gbps.   EMCORE's  photodetector  arrays  operate  up  to  speeds  of
          3.125Gbps  and provide the  efficiency  required for  high-speed  data
          transmission;

     o    March 2001 - EMCORE debuted the industry's first 850 nm 10 Gbps VCSEL.
          These VCSELs are designed to work in existing  optical  components and
          are optimized for high-speed  data transmission  over multimode fiber.
          Designed  for  optical  interconnect  applications  under 300  meters,
          including  Local Area Networks  ("LANs") such as Gigabit  Ethernet and
          Fibre  Channel,  these VCSEL products are available as bare die or can
          be built into optical subassemblies; and

     o    March  2001 - EMCORE  also  debuted  its  first SC and LC  Transmitter
          Optical Subassemblies ("TOSA") designed for 850nm applications.  These
          TOSAs  provide the market with a device  that  incorporates  speed and
          reliability  in a low cost package.  The package is cost effective and
          ideal  for  integration  into  existing  and  new  transceiver  module
          designs.  Both products use EMCORE's 2.5 Gbps oxide VCSEL, which meets
          the  performance  requirements  of short  reach and very  short  reach
          multimode fiber optic applications,  including LANs, SANs,  backplane,
          rack-to-rack and intraswitch. Both TOSA packages perform at the 1Gbps,
          1.25Gbps,  2.1Gbps or  2.5Gbps  data  rates,  which are  suitable  for
          Gigabit Ethernet, Fibre Channel and OC-48 applications.


                                                                              10


<PAGE>


Photodetectors

          Photodetectors are discrete semiconductor devices that detect light in
order to convert an optical signal into an electrical signal. Similar to VCSELs,
photodetectors combine the ability of batch processing and on-wafer testing with
superior  electro-optical  performance.  The large aperture size readily permits
efficient coupling of the light from a multi-mode fiber. Furthermore, EMCORE has
demonstrated  devices that are hermetically  sealed,  thus ensuring devices with
high reliability regardless of the nature of the device packaging.

          EMCORE has successfully developed 1x12 1.25Gbps and 1x12 2.7Gbps 850nm
photodetector  arrays.  These arrays perform light to logic conversions for data
transmissions  over multi-mode  fiber ribbon cable.  EMCORE began shipping these
photodetector  arrays  July  2000.  In  addition,  EMCORE  developed  a 10  Gbps
photodetector  and 10Gbps 1x4  array,  and  commenced  commercial  shipments  in
October 2001.

          In   addition,   EMCORE  has   developed  a   long-wavelength   1310nm
photodetector  product.  This product is geared  largely  toward the  high-speed
telecom medium range  market/application  using single-mode fiber.  EMCORE began
shipping 1x12 2.5Gbps long-wavelength photodetector arrays in November 2001.



VCSEL-Based Array Transceivers and Transponders

          VCSEL-based  array  transceivers  are  penetrating   telecommunication
markets as solutions for low-cost, very short reach (VSR) OC-192 (10 Gbps) SONET
optical links. The Optical  Internetworking  Forum (of which EMCORE is a member)
approved the  specifications  for VSR OC-192 optical links based on VCSEL arrays
in December 2000.  Array  transceivers  are the preferred  solutions of original
equipment  manufacturers for high-speed optical backplanes,  which are replacing
traditional  electrical  backplanes as bandwidth  requirements have exceeded the
limits practical for copper connections.

          EMCORE has  successfully  developed  and made  commercially  available
high-speed   array    transceivers   and   transponders   for   the   data   and
telecommunications  markets.  EMCORE's  transceivers and transponders  offer OEM
equipment manufacturers several advantages, including:

          o    Fast transmission speeds up to 32Gbps aggregate throughput.

          o    Products are designed for high volume manufacturing.

          o    Utilize  EMCORE's  leading-edge  VCSEL  array and PIN  photodiode
               array components.

          o    Deliver significant  cost-performance and application flexibility
               advantages over traditional serial solutions.


          Since EMCORE first  introduced  its new family of fiber optic products
to the market,  the Company has made  several  accomplishments  and provided the
marketplace  with high speed  solutions to alleviate  data  congestion.  Some of
these achievements include:

          o    August 2001 - EMCORE  announced the commercial  production of its
               new high speed,  cost-effective  12 x 1.25Gbps  parallel  optical
               array transmitter/receiver (transceiver) modules to significantly
               improve data throughput  capability.  These modules perform logic
               to light and light to logic  conversions  for data  transmissions
               over multi-mode fiber ribbon cable.

          o    October 2001 - EMCORE announced the commercial  availability of a
               new 300 pin MSA (multi source  agreement)  compliant  transponder
               module to provide very short reach interconnections over parallel
               fiber links at SONET OC-192 data rates.  The VSR  transponder  is
               the first commercially  available 300-pin  transponder  compliant
               with the Optical  Internetworking  Forum's  VSR-1  Implementation
               Agreement  (OIF-VSR4-0.10).   This  transponder  is  the  initial
               product offering from a family of EMCORE transponder products and
               will soon be followed by a small form factor version

          o    November  2001 - EMCORE began  shipping its next  generation 12 x
               2.7Gbps parallel optical array transceiver modules.


                                                                              11


<PAGE>


RF and Electronic Materials

          Radio frequency ("RF") materials are compound semiconductor  materials
that transmit and receive  communications.  Compound  semiconductor RF materials
have a broader  bandwidth and superior  performance at higher  frequencies  than
silicon-based  materials.  EMCORE currently produces 4-inch and 6-inch InGaP HBT
and pHEMT materials  including e-mode devices that are used for power amplifiers
for GSM, TDMA and CDMA multiband wireless handsets.  InGaP HBT materials provide
higher linearity,  higher power added efficiency as well as greater  reliability
than first generation AlGaAs HBT technologies, and have become the technology of
choice for next generation HBT-based power amplifiers for wireless handsets.  In
addition,  recent  developments  and transfers to production of enhancement mode
pHEMT technologies have demonstrated their continued competitiveness for handset
applications.

          EMCORE is also exploring  opportunities  to market RF materials to its
fiber optic  customers  for use in high speed digital  components  for OC-48 and
OC-192  fiber  optic  communication  and to its power  satellite  customers  for
satellite  communication  applications.  EMCORE  believes  that its  ability  to
produce  high  volumes  of RF  materials  at a low cost  will  facilitate  their
adoption in new applications and products.

          EMCORE's  manufacturing  facility  in New Jersey has seven  Enterprise
MOCVD production tools dedicated to electronic  materials  growth.  In addition,
EMCORE is in the process of qualifying two new Enterprise 450 TurboDisc reactors
equipped with cassette to cassette wafer handling capability,  leaving space for
an additional nine Enterprise Electronic Materials Production tools. EMCORE also
equipped its wafer  fabrication  area with state of the art cassette to cassette
characterization equipment.

          In May 2000,  EMCORE  signed an agreement  with Motorola to meet their
requirements for epitaxial tools,  wireless electronic materials and technology.
This relationship  includes supplying Motorola with epitaxial process technology
and multiple MOCVD  production  tools, as well as purchase orders for electronic
device epitaxial  wafers.  Motorola also announced that EMCORE was awarded their
Standard  Supplier  Designation,  making EMCORE the only  qualified  supplier of
MOCVD tools for Motorola's compound semiconductor factories.

          In October  2000 EMCORE  received a  multi-million  dollar  order from
Anadigics  to supply  6-inch GaAs HBT and pHEMT wafers for their fiber optic and
wireless communications devices. Anadigics is using EMCORE's materials for power
amplifiers for GSM, TDMA and CDMA multiband wireless handsets and for high-speed
digital components for OC-192 data communication applications.

          During late 2000 and throughout  2001,  EMCORE devoted its development
efforts  to making  advances  in  compound  semiconductor  materials  containing
nitrogen,  including InGaAsN and InP HBT and GaN FET/pHEMT. EMCORE believes that
these next generation  materials and device technologies into which they will be
employed will replace existing  technologies.  EMCORE has filed patents which it
believes  are  critical to InGaAsN  HBT and GaN  FET/pHEMT  applications,  which
include wireless  handsets and base stations,  as well as millimeter wave ground
and  satellite  communication  systems.  There can be no  assurance  that  these
patents  will  be  issued  or,  if  obtained,   that  they  will  afford  EMCORE
commercially significant protection of its technologies.



Solar Cells

          Compound  semiconductor  solar  cells  are  used to  power  satellites
because  they are more  resistant  to  radiation  levels  in space  and  convert
substantially  more light to power,  therefore weigh less per unit of power than
silicon-based  solar  cells.  These  characteristics  increase  satellite  life,
increase  payload  capacity and reduce  launch  costs.  In fiscal  2000,  EMCORE
announced  the  manufacture  and  shipment  of the  world's  highest  efficiency
dual-junction solar cell for satellite  applications.  EMCORE also announced the
production of high-efficiency triple junction solar cells with a minimum average
efficiency  of 26%.  EMCORE began  shipping the triple  junction  solar cells in
September 2000.


                                                                              12


<PAGE>


          EMCORE is currently involved in several solar cell projects:

          o    EMCORE's   solar  cells  were  selected  for  use  on  two  Space
               Technology  Research Vehicles (STRV 1c&1d).  Arianspace  launched
               these  micro-satellites  in November  2000.  EMCORE's solar cells
               have also been selected for two European communication  satellite
               programs  scheduled  for launch in 2002.  Additionally,  EMCORE's
               solar cells are being used for two Japanese  scientific  programs
               sponsored  by the  National  Space  Development  Agency  of Japan
               (NASDA);

          o    EMCORE is also working  with TRW,  Boeing and Lockheed to qualify
               its  high  efficiency   solar  cells  for  spacecraft  with  high
               electrical power requirements;

          o    In April 2000,  EMCORE signed a Memorandum of Understanding  with
               Angewandte  Solarenergie-ASE  GmbH to provide solar cell material
               for use in the manufacture of their solar cells; and

          o    In November 1998, EMCORE signed a long-term supply agreement with
               Space  Systems/Loral,  a wholly owned subsidiary of Loral Space &
               Communications.  Under this agreement,  EMCORE supplies  compound
               semiconductor  high efficiency  gallium  arsenide solar cells for
               Loral's satellites.  To date, EMCORE has received purchase orders
               from Space  Systems/Loral  that total $32.6  million and services
               this agreement at our facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico.



HB LEDs

          High-brightness  light-emitting  diodes  ("HB  LEDs") are solid  state
compound semiconductor devices that emit light. The global demand for HB LEDs is
experiencing  rapid  growth  because HB LEDs have a long  useful  life,  consume
approximately  10% of the power consumed by incandescent or halogen lighting and
improve display  visibility.  In May 1999,  EMCORE and General Electric Lighting
formed  GELcore LLC  ("GELcore"),  a joint  venture to develop and market HB LED
lighting  products.  The two parties have agreed that this joint venture will be
the exclusive  vehicle for each party's  participation  in solid state lighting.
GELcore combines EMCORE's  materials science  expertise,  process technology and
compound semiconductor production systems with General Electric Lighting's brand
name  recognition  and  extensive   marketing  and  distribution   capabilities.
GELcore's  current product line includes channel letters,  flashlights and other
signage and display products  incorporating HB LEDs. GELcore's long-term goal is
to develop products to replace traditional  lighting. In September 2000, GELcore
acquired Ecolux, Inc. adding  LED-signaling  products to its growing line of LED
products.  EMCORE  believes  that Ecolux is currently  receiving the majority of
contracts for which it submits bids for the  replacement of traditional  traffic
lights with HB LEDs.



MR Sensors

          Magneto  resistive ("MR") sensors are compound  semiconductor  devices
that  possess  sensing  capabilities.  MR sensors  improve  vehicle  performance
through more accurate control of engine and crank shaft timing, which allows for
improved spark plug efficiency and reduced  emissions.  In January 1997,  EMCORE
initiated  shipments  of  compound  semiconductor  MR sensors  using  technology
licensed  to  EMCORE  from  General  Motors.   This  license  allows  EMCORE  to
manufacture and sell products to anyone using this  technology.  As of September
30, 2001,  EMCORE has delivered  approximately  14.8 million  devices to General
Motors Powertrain for crank and cam speed and position sensing  applications for
5 different engine builds under 20 different vehicle platforms.


                                                                              13


<PAGE>


Customers

          EMCORE's rapidly expanding  customer base includes many of the largest
semiconductor,  telecommunications,  consumer  goods and computer  manufacturing
companies in the world. Some of our customers include Agilent Technologies Ltd.,
AMP,  Inc.,  Anadigics  Inc.,  Blaze  Networking  Products,   Boeing-Spectrolab,
Corning,  Inc., General Motors Corp., Hewlett Packard Co., Honeywell Int'l Inc.,
Infineon   Technologies   AG,  Loral  Space  &   Communications   Ltd.,   Lucent
Technologies,  Inc., LumiLeds Lighting (a joint venture between Philips Lighting
and Agilent Technologies),  Motorola,  Inc., Nortel Networks Corp., Siemens AG's
Osram GmbH subsidiary, TriQuint Semiconductor, Inc. and more than a dozen of the
largest electronics manufacturers in Japan.

          Since its  inception,  EMCORE has worked closely with its customers to
design and develop process  technology and material science expertise for use in
production systems for its customers' enduse applications.  EMCORE has leveraged
its process and materials science knowledge base to manufacture a broad range of
compound semiconductor wafers and devices such as VCSELs, photodetectors, RF and
electronic materials,  solar cells, HB LEDs and MR sensors. Within most of these
product lines,  EMCORE has  established  strategic  relationships  through joint
ventures,   long-term   supply   agreements,   acquisitions  and  other  certain
relationships. A summary of these relationships is found below:



                      PRODUCTS AND STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

   Product Line         Company                    Nature of Relationship              Application

<S>                     <C>                        <C>                              <C>

Vertical cavity         Agilent                    Long-term supply agreement       Data communication systems
surface-emitting        Infineon                   Customer                           (routers and switches)
lasers (VCSELs)         Molex                      Customer                         Telecommunication systems
                                                                                      (cross connect switches,
Photodetectors at                                                                      Very Short Reach OC-192
850 nm and                                                                             links)
1310 nm                                                                             Optical links (including
                                                                                      Gigabit Ethernet, ATM and
                                                                                      FibreChannel networks)


Radio frequency (RF)    Motorola                   Long-term supply agreements      Digital wireless and cellular
materials               Anadigics                                                     applications


Solar cells             Space Systems /  Loral     Long-term supply agreement       Solar panels in
                                                                                      communications  satellite
                        Union Miniere, Inc.        Long-term germanium sourcing       powered systems
                                                    agreement



High-brightness         General Electric           GELcore joint venture for the    Traffic lights
light-emitting diodes     Lighting                   development, marketing and     Miniature lamps
 (HB LEDs)                                           distribution of white light    Automotive lighting
                                                     and colored HB LED             Flat panel displays
                                                     products


Magneto resistive (MR)  General Motors             Long-term supply agreement       Cam and crank shaft sensors
sensors                   Corporation

                        Optek

</TABLE>


                                                                              14


<PAGE>


          EMCORE has a  comprehensive  total  quality  management  program  with
special  emphasis on total  customer  satisfaction.  EMCORE  seeks to  encourage
active  customer  involvement  with the design and  operation of its  production
systems.  To accomplish  this,  EMCORE  conducts user group  meetings  among its
customers  in Asia,  Europe  and North  America.  At annual  meetings,  EMCORE's
customers  provide  valuable  feedback  on  key  operations,   process  oriented
services,  problems and recommendations to improve EMCORE products.  This direct
customer feedback has enabled EMCORE to constantly update and improve the design
of  its  systems  and  processes.   Changes  that  affect  the  reliability  and
capabilities  of EMCORE's  systems are embodied in new designs to enable current
and future  customers to utilize  systems which EMCORE believes are high quality
and  cost-efficient.  As of September 30, 2001, EMCORE employed 47 field service
engineers who install systems and provide on-site support.


Marketing and Sales

          EMCORE markets and sells its wafers,  devices and systems  through its
direct sales force in North America,  Europe, Taiwan and through representatives
and distributors elsewhere in Asia. To market and service its products in China,
Japan and  Singapore,  EMCORE  relies on a single  marketing,  distribution  and
service  provider,  Hakuto Co., Ltd.  EMCORE's  agreements with Hakuto expire in
March 2008. Hakuto has exclusive distribution rights for certain EMCORE products
in Japan.  Hakuto has marketed and serviced  EMCORE's  products since 1988, is a
minority  shareholder  in  EMCORE  and the  President  of  Hakuto is a member of
EMCORE's Board of Directors.  In August 1999, EMCORE entered into a distribution
agreement  with DI Systems  to market and  service  EMCORE's  products  in South
Korea.  EMCORE  has sales  offices in  California  and  Taiwan,  ROC in order to
efficiently service EMCORE's rapidly expanding customer base in these areas.

          EMCORE's sales and marketing,  senior  management and technical  staff
work  closely  with  existing  and  potential   customers  to  provide  compound
semiconductor products that meet their customers' needs. EMCORE seeks to match a
customer's  requirements  to an existing  design or a modification of a standard
design.  When  necessary,  EMCORE  will work with the  customer  to develop  the
appropriate  design  process and to configure  and  manufacture  the  production
system to meet the  customer's  needs.  EMCORE  will  also  produce  samples  to
demonstrate  conformance  to  the  customer's  specifications.   For  production
systems,  the period of time from the initial  contact  with the customer to the
customer's  placement  of an order is  typically  two to nine  months or longer.
EMCORE's  sales cycle for wafers and devices  usually runs three to nine months,
during which time EMCORE develops the formula of elements  necessary to meet the
customer's specifications and qualifies the materials which may also require the
delivery  of  samples.  EMCORE  believes  that  the  marketing,  management  and
engineering  support  involved  in this  process  is  beneficial  in  developing
competitive differentiation and long-term relationships with its customers.


Service and Support

          EMCORE maintains a worldwide  service and support network  responsible
for  on-site  maintenance  and process  monitoring  on either a  contractual  or
time-and-materials  basis. Customers may purchase annual service contracts under
which EMCORE is required to maintain an inventory  of  replacement  parts and to
service the equipment upon the customer's request. EMCORE also sells replacement
parts from inventory to meet customer needs.  EMCORE pursues a program of system
upgrades for  customers to increase the  performance  of older  systems.  EMCORE
generally  does not offer  extended  payment terms to customers and adheres to a
warranty policy of 1 year.  Consistent with industry practice,  EMCORE maintains
an inventory of components  for  servicing  systems in the field and it believes
that its  inventory is  sufficient to satisfy  foreseeable  short-term  customer
requirements. Since fiscal 1998, EMCORE has operated a warehouse depot in Taiwan
to provide improved service to its Asian customers.


                                                                              15


<PAGE>


Research and Development


          To maintain and improve its competitive  position,  EMCORE's  research
and development  efforts are focused on designing new proprietary  processes and
products,  improving the performance of existing systems, wafers and devices and
reducing  costs in the product  manufacturing  process.  EMCORE has dedicated 34
TurboDisc systems and five device  fabrication  facilities for both research and
production that are capable of processing  virtually all compound  semiconductor
materials.  Nine of those TurboDisc systems and two device fabrication areas are
dedicated fully to research and  development  efforts and are used by a staff of
over 100  scientists,  engineers and  technicians.  Forty-one of EMCORE's  staff
members have a Ph.D.  degree. The research and development staff utilizes x-ray,
optical and electrical  characterization  equipment  which provide  instant data
allowing for shortened  development cycles and rapid customer  response.  During
fiscal years 2001, 2000 and 1999,  EMCORE invested $53.4 million,  $32.7 million
and $20.7 million into research and development.


          EMCORE believes that several  research and  development  projects have
the  potential  to greatly  improve its  competitive  position  and to drive its
revenue growth in the next few years. In the field of VCSEL  components,  EMCORE
has led the industry in the  development of 10 Gbps VCSELs and has  successfully
tested 10 Gbps  operation  of prototype  parts.  These VCSELs can be produced as
singlets  or as arrays for much  higher  bandwidth  transceivers.  EMCORE is the
first  company to offer these  devices and  commenced  shipments  of the 10 Gbps
VCSEL to fiber optic customers in December 2000 and received additional purchase
orders for  shipments  beginning at the end of March 2001.  Along with its VCSEL
efforts, EMCORE developed 850 nm and 1310 nm photodetector arrays, which operate
at speeds of up to 10 Gbps and are  designed to work with these  VCSEL  devices.
EMCORE  has  invested  aggressively  in the  development  of  array  transceiver
products  that  capitalize  on  its  VCSEL  and  photodetector   components.  By
manufacturing  these components  in-house,  EMCORE is able to reduce the overall
cost of the transceiver module. With the first project of a 12 x 1.25 Gbps array
transceiver  successfully  demonstrated,  EMCORE  plans to  continue  with  this
roadmap to introduce a family of state-of-the-art  products for Very Short Reach
fiber  optics  modules.  In the field of solar  cells,  development  of advanced
device  structures and growth  techniques are enabling an increase in solar cell
efficiency  from  EMCORE's  current  industry  leading  26% solar  cell to a 28%
product. For electronic materials,  EMCORE has continued to develop advanced HBT
and pHEMT structures using next generation  materials,  such as InGaAsN and InP.
EMCORE  expects  to  introduce  its next  generation  system  design  across its
TurboDisc  product line this year.  These new systems are intended to reduce the
overall  cost of ownership of the  TurboDisc  systems by lowering  manufacturing
costs for its customers.


          EMCORE also competes for research and  development  funds.  In view of
the high cost of development,  EMCORE solicits  research  contracts that provide
opportunities   to   enhance   its  core   technology   base  or   promote   the
commercialization  of targeted  EMCORE  products.  EMCORE is also  positioned to
market technology and process  development  expertise  directly to customers who
require it for their own product development efforts.



Intellectual Property and Licensing

          EMCORE's  success and  competitive  position for  production  systems,
wafers and devices depends  significantly on its ability to obtain  intellectual
property protection for its research and development efforts.  EMCORE's strategy
is to rely on both  patents  and  trade  secrets  to  protect  its  intellectual
property.  To date,  EMCORE  has been  issued 14 U.S.  patents  and two  foreign
patents,  and others are either pending (50 patent  applications filed) or under
in-house review (19 disclosures and draft patent applications). The U.S. patents
will expire  between  2005 and 2018.  These  patents  (granted  and filed) claim
material aspects of current or planned commercial  versions of EMCORE's systems,
wafers or devices. For example:

          o    U.S.  Patent  No.  6,197,121  granted  on March 6, 2001  entitled
               "Chemical Vapor Deposition  Apparatus" covers material aspects of
               our current reactor technology, and

          o    The 12 x 1.25 Gbps array transceiver project for Very Short Reach
               fiber optics modules have generated eight patent  applications to
               date.


                                                                              16


<PAGE>


          EMCORE  only  relies on trade  secrets  to  protect  its  intellectual
property when it believes  publishing patents would make it easier for others to
reverse engineer EMCORE's proprietary processes. A "trade secret" is information
that  has  value  to  the  extent  it  is  not  generally   known,  not  readily
ascertainable  by others  through  legitimate  means and protected in a way that
maintains its secrecy.  Reliance on trade secrets is only an effective  business
practice insofar as trade secrets remain  undisclosed and a proprietary  product
or process is not reverse  engineered or  independently  developed.  In order to
protect  its trade  secrets,  EMCORE  takes  certain  measures  to ensure  their
secrecy,  such as partitioning the non-essential flow of information between its
different divisions and executing non-disclosure  agreements with its employees,
joint venture partners, customers and suppliers.

          EMCORE is a licensee of certain VCSEL technology and associated patent
rights owned by Sandia Corporation. The Sandia license grants EMCORE:

          o    non-exclusive  rights to develop,  manufacture  and sell products
               containing Sandia VCSEL technologies under five U.S. patents that
               expire between 2007 and 2015; and

          o    non-exclusive   rights   to   employ  a   proprietary   oxidation
               fabrication  method in the  manufacture of VCSEL products under a
               sixth U.S.  patent  that  expires in 2014.  EMCORE's  success and
               competitive  position as a producer of VCSEL products  depends on
               the  continuation  of its rights  under the Sandia  license,  the
               scope and  duration of those  rights and the ability of Sandia to
               protect its  proprietary  interests in the underlying  technology
               and patents.


Environmental Regulations

          EMCORE is subject  to  federal,  state and local laws and  regulations
concerning the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release,
discharge and disposal of certain materials used in its research and development
and  production   operations,   as  well  as  laws  and  regulations  concerning
environmental  remediation  and employee  health and safety.  The  production of
wafers  and  devices  involves  the  use of  certain  hazardous  raw  materials,
including,  but not  limited to,  ammonia,  phosphine  and  arsine.  If EMCORE's
control  systems  are  unsuccessful  in  preventing  release  of  these or other
hazardous  materials,  EMCORE could  experience a  substantial  interruption  of
operations.  EMCORE  has  in-house  professionals  to  address  compliance  with
applicable  environmental  and  health  and  safety  laws and  regulations,  and
believes that it is currently,  and in the past has been, in compliance with all
such laws and regulations.


Manufacturing

          EMCORE's manufacturing operations are located at EMCORE's headquarters
in  Somerset,  New Jersey and in  Albuquerque,  New Mexico and  include  systems
engineering  and  production,  wafer  fabrication  and design and  production of
devices.  Many of EMCORE's  manufacturing  operations are computer  monitored or
controlled to enhance reliability and yield. EMCORE manufactures its own systems
and outsources some components and sub-assemblies, but performs all final system
integration,  assembly and testing.  As of  September  30, 2001,  EMCORE had 458
employees involved in manufacturing. EMCORE fabricates wafers and devices at its
facilities  in  Somerset,  New  Jersey  and  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico and has a
combined clean room area totaling approximately 41,000 square feet.

          Currently,  all of EMCORE's  divisions  have  acquired and  maintained
certification  status for their Quality  Management  Systems.  At the New Jersey
facility,  EMCORE's  TurboDisc  Tools  division  is  registered  to ISO 9001 and
EMCORE's Electronic Devices and Electronic Materials divisions are registered to
ISO 9001 + QS 9000. At the New Mexico facility,  EMCORE's  Photovoltaics,  Fiber
Optical Component and Optical Device divisions are registered to ISO 9001.


                                                                              17


<PAGE>


          Outside contractors and suppliers are used to supply raw materials and
standard  components  and to  assemble  portions  of  end  systems  from  EMCORE
specifications.  EMCORE  depends on sole, or a limited  number of,  suppliers of
components and raw materials. EMCORE generally purchases these single or limited
source products through standard purchase orders.  EMCORE also seeks to maintain
ongoing  communications  with its suppliers to insure against  interruptions  in
supply and has, to date,  generally been able to obtain sufficient supplies in a
timely manner.  EMCORE maintains  inventories it believes are sufficient to meet
its near term  needs.  EMCORE  implemented  a vendor  program  through  which it
inspects  quality  and  reviews  suppliers  and  prices in order to  standardize
purchasing  efficiencies  and design  requirements  to maintain as low a cost of
sales as possible.  However, operating results could be materially and adversely
affected  by a  stoppage  or delay of  supply,  receipt  of  defective  parts or
contaminated  materials,  and  increase in the pricing of such parts or EMCORE's
inability  to  obtain  reduced   pricing  from  its  suppliers  in  response  to
competitive pressures.


Competition

          The markets in which EMCORE  competes are highly  competitive.  EMCORE
competes with several  companies for sales of MOCVD systems,  primarily  Aixtron
GmbH and  Nippon-Sanso  K.K.  Ltd. The primary  competitors  for EMCORE's  wafer
foundry include  Hitachi-Cable,  Kopin Corporation and IQE.  EMCORE's  principal
competitors for sales of VCSEL-related products include Honeywell, Inc., AXT and
Avalon Photonics for serial optics and Agilent,  Infineon, Zarlink Semiconductor
and W.L. Gore for parallel optics. The principal  competitors for MR sensors are
Honeywell,   Inc.,   Matshushita   Electric  Industrial  Co.  Ltd.,  Siemens  AG
Osterreich,   Electrotechnik   and  Asahi  Kasei   Electronic   Co.,   Ltd..  In
photovoltaics  devices,  EMCORE faces  competition from Boeing and Tecstar.  The
principal  competitors  for HB LEDs and  EMCORE's  joint  venture  with  General
Electric  Lighting  include LumiLeds  Lighting,  a joint venture between Agilent
Technologies and Philips  Lighting,  Siemens AG's Osram GmbH subsidiary,  Nichia
Chemical Industries and Toshiba Corporation.  EMCORE also faces competition from
manufacturers  that implement  in-house  systems for their own use. In addition,
EMCORE competes with many research  institutions  and  universities for research
contract  funding.  EMCORE also sells its  products to current  competitors  and
companies  with the  capability  of  becoming  competitors.  As the  markets for
EMCORE's  products  grow,  new  competitors  are  likely to emerge  and  present
competitors may increase their market share.

          EMCORE believes that the primary competitive factors in the markets in
which EMCORE's products compete are yield, throughput,  performance,  breadth of
product  line,   customer   satisfaction,   customer   commitment  to  competing
technologies  and, in the case of production  systems,  capital and direct costs
and size of installed base.  Competitors  may develop  enhancements to or future
generations  of competitive  products that offer superior price and  performance
factors.  EMCORE  believes that in order to remain  competitive,  it must invest
significant   financial   resources  in  developing  new  product  features  and
enhancements and in maintaining customer satisfaction worldwide.


Employees

          At  September  30,  2001,  EMCORE  had 867  employees,  including  458
employees  in   manufacturing   operations,   219   employees  in  research  and
development,  170 employees in sales and general administration and 20 temporary
employees.  This  represented an increase of 242 employees or 39% from September
30,  2000.  In order to meet the  challenges  of the current  economic  climate,
EMCORE  announced a  workforce  reduction  in October  2001 that  decreased  its
overall  headcount  by 105  employees  or  approximately  12%.  None of EMCORE's
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. EMCORE considers its
relationship with its employees to be good.


                                                                              18


<PAGE>


Risk Factors

We May Continue To Incur Operating Losses.

          We started  operations in 1984 and as of September 30, 2001, we had an
accumulated  deficit of $121.2 million.  We incurred net losses of $12.3 million
in fiscal 2001,  $25.5  million in fiscal 2000 and $22.7 million in fiscal 1999.
In addition,  as a result of the downturn in the economy, we expect a decline in
revenues in fiscal year 2002. Many of our expenses,  particularly those relating
to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are fixed. Accordingly, reduced
revenue  causes  our  fixed  production  costs to be  allocated  across  reduced
production volumes,  which adversely affects our gross margin and profitability.
Therefore,  we expect to  continue  to incur  operating  losses  until  revenues
increase.  We cannot  currently  predict  whether or when demand will strengthen
across our  product  lines or how  quickly  our  customers  will  consume  their
inventories of our products. In addition,  several of our customers have reduced
the lead times they give us when ordering  product from us. While this trend has
enabled us to reduce  inventory,  it also  restricts  our  ability  to  forecast
revenues.  If our sales and profit margins do not increase to support the higher
levels  of  operating  expenses  and  if  our  new  product  offerings  are  not
successful, our business,  financial condition and results of operations will be
materially and adversely affected.


          We Must  Continually  Improve Existing  Products,  Design And Sell New
Products  And  Manage  The  Costs  Of  Research  And  Development  In  Order  To
Effectively Compete.

          We compete in markets  characterized  by rapid  technological  change,
evolving  industry  standards and continuous  improvements  in products.  Due to
constant changes in these markets,  our future success depends on our ability to
improve our manufacturing  processes,  tools and products. To remain competitive
we must  continually  introduce new and improved  products as well as production
tools with higher capacity and better production yields.

          The life cycles of some of our products  depend  heavily upon the life
cycles of the end products into which our products are  designed.  Products with
short life cycles require us to manage  production and inventory levels closely.
We cannot assure investors that obsolete or excess inventories, which may result
from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or
the  estimated  life  cycles of the end  products  into which our  products  are
designed,  will not affect us beyond the inventory  charges that we have already
taken during fiscal year 2001.

          We  have  recently  introduced  a  number  of new  products,  and,  in
connection with a joint venture and internal development, we will be introducing
additional  new  products  in the  near  future.  The  commercialization  of new
products  involves   substantial   expenditures  in  research  and  development,
production and marketing. We may be unable to successfully design or manufacture
these new products and may have difficulty penetrating new markets.

          Because it is  generally  not  possible  to predict the amount of time
required and the costs involved in achieving certain  research,  development and
engineering objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and
estimated product development schedules may be extended. Our business, financial
condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if:

          o    we are unable to improve our existing products on a timely basis;
          o    our new products are not  introduced  on a timely basis or do not
               achieve sufficient market penetration;
          o    we  incur   budget   overruns  or  delays  in  our  research  and
               development efforts; or
          o    our new products experience reliability or quality problems.

We May Engage In Acquisitions That May Harm Our Operating Results, Dilute Our
Shareholders And Cause Us To Incur Debt Or Assume Contingent Liabilities.

          We may pursue  acquisitions to acquire new  technologies,  products or
service offerings. Future acquisitions by us may involve the following:

          o    use of significant amounts of cash;
          o    potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; and
          o    incurrence of debt or amortization  expenses  related to goodwill
               and other intangible assets.


                                                                              19


<PAGE>


          In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:

          o    difficulties in the integration of the operations,  technologies,
               products and personnel of the acquired company;

          o    diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;

          o    risks of  entering  markets in which we have no or limited  prior
               experience; and

          o    potential loss of key employees of the acquired
               company.

          From time to time,  we have engaged in  discussions  with  acquisition
candidates regarding potential  acquisitions of product lines,  technologies and
businesses.  If such an  acquisition  does occur,  we cannot be certain that our
business,  operating results and financial  condition will not be materially and
adversely affected.

Our Rapid Growth Places A Strain On Our Resources.

          We have experienced rapid growth, having added a significant number of
new  employees  within the last year.  We have also  expanded our  manufacturing
facilities in Albuquerque,  New Mexico and in Somerset,  New Jersey. This growth
has placed and will  continue to place a significant  strain on our  management,
financial,  sales and other employees and on our internal  systems and controls.
If we are unable to effectively  manage multiple  facilities and a joint venture
in  geographically  distant  locations,  our business,  financial  condition and
results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.  We are also in
the process of installing new manufacturing  and accounting  software at our New
Jersey  facility.  Most of the new  manufacturing  software is customized to our
particular business and manufacturing  processes.  It will take time and require
evaluation to eliminate any  malfunctions in the software and to train personnel
to use  the new  software.  In  this  transition  we may  experience  delays  in
production, cost overruns and disruptions in our operations.

Our Industry Is Rapidly Changing

          The compound  semiconductor industry is changing rapidly due to, among
other things,  continuous  technological  improvements  in products and evolving
industry  standards.  This industry is marked by the continuous  introduction of
new products and increased  capacity for services  similar to those  provided by
us. Future  technological  advances in the compound  semiconductor  industry may
result in the  availability  of new  products  or  increase  the  efficiency  of
existing products. If a technology becomes available that is more cost effective
or creates a superior product, we may be unable to access such technology or its
use may  involve  substantial  capital  expenditures,  which we may be unable to
finance. There can be no assurance that existing, proposed or as yet undeveloped
technologies will not render our technology less profitable or that we will have
available  the financial and other  resources  necessary to compete  effectively
against companies  possessing such technologies.  There can be no assurance that
we will be able to adapt to technological  changes or offer competitive products
on a timely or cost effective basis.

Fluctuations In Our Quarterly  Operating Results May Negatively Impact Our Stock
Price.

          Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter
to quarter  due to a number of  factors  particular  to EMCORE and the  compound
semiconductor  industry.  Not all of these  factors  are in our  control.  These
factors include:

          o    the volume and  timing of orders for our  products,  particularly
               TurboDisc systems,  which have an average selling price in excess
               of $1 million;
          o    the timing of our  announcements and introduction of new products
               and of similar announcements by our competitors;
          o    downturns in the market for our customers' products;
          o    regional  economic  conditions,  particularly  in Asia  where  we
               derive a significant portion of our revenues;
          o    price volatility in the compound semiconductor industry;
          o    changes in product mix; and
          o    timing of customer orders.

          These factors may cause our operating results for future periods to be
below the  expectations  of analysts and investors.  This may cause a decline in
the price of our common stock.


                                                                              20


<PAGE>


Our Joint Venture  Partner,  Who Has Control Of The Venture,  May Make Decisions
That We Do Not Agree With And That Adversely Affect Our Net Income.

          We do not have a majority  interest in our joint  venture with General
Electric  Lighting.  A  board  of  managers  governs  this  joint  venture  with
representatives  from  both  the  strategic  partner  and us.  Many  fundamental
decisions must be approved by both parties to the joint venture,  which means we
will be unable to direct the  operation  and  direction  of this  joint  venture
without the agreement of our joint venture partner. If we are unable to agree on
important  issues with the joint  venture  partner,  the  business of that joint
venture  may be  delayed or  interrupted,  which may,  in turn,  materially  and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

          We have devoted and will be required to continue to devote significant
funds and  technologies  to our joint  venture  to  develop  and  enhance  their
products. In addition, our joint venture will require that some of our employees
devote much of their time to joint venture projects. This will place a strain on
our management,  scientific, financial and sales employees. If our joint venture
is  unsuccessful  in developing  and  marketing  their  products,  our business,
financial  condition and results of operations  may be materially  and adversely
affected.

          General  Electric  Lighting  and  EMCORE  have  agreed  that our joint
venture  will be the sole vehicle for each  party's  participation  in the solid
state lighting market.  General Electric Lighting and EMCORE have also agreed to
several  limitations during the life of the venture and thereafter  relating how
each of us can make use of the joint  venture's  technology.  One consequence of
these limitations is that in certain  circumstances,  such as a material default
by us or certain  sales of our  interest in the joint  venture,  we would not be
permitted  to use the joint  venture's  technology  to compete  against  General
Electric Lighting in the solid state lighting market.


We Have A Significant Amount Of Investments In Marketable Securities.

          EMCORE  accounts  for  its  investment  in  marketable  securities  as
available for sale securities in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115,
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity  Securities."  Unrealized
gains and losses for these securities are excluded from earnings and reported as
a separate component of shareholders' equity. Realized gains and losses on sales
of investments,  as determined on a specific  identification basis, are included
in the  consolidated  statements of  operations.  Fair values are  determined by
reference to market  prices for  securities  as quoted based on publicly  traded
exchanges.  In August 2001, EMCORE sold its minority  ownership  position in its
joint  venture  with  Uniroyal  Technology  Corporation  (UTCI) in exchange  for
approximately  2.0 million  shares of UTCI common stock.  EMCORE's cost basis in
the UTCI stock is $7.10 per share or approximately  $14.0 million.  At September
30, 2001,  the fair market  value of UTCI stock was $3.14 per share.  Therefore,
EMCORE  had an  unrealized  loss of $7.8  million  recorded  as a  component  of
comprehensive  loss.  The  investment  of UTCI common stock is subject to market
risk of equity price  changes.  While EMCORE cannot predict or manage the future
price for such stock,  management  continues to evaluate its investment position
on an ongoing basis,  which may result in the write down of the investment to an
estimated realizable value and our results of operations could be materially and
adversely affected.


                                                                              21


<PAGE>


Since A Large Percentage of Our Revenues Are From Foreign Sales,  Certain Export
Risks May Disproportionately Affect Our Revenues.

          Sales to customers  located  outside the United  States  accounted for
approximately  47.7% of our  revenues in fiscal  2001,  38.6% of our revenues in
fiscal 2000 and 52.5% of our revenues in fiscal 1999. Sales to customers in Asia
represent the majority of our international sales. We believe that international
sales will  continue to account for a  significant  percentage  of our revenues.
Because of this, the following  export risks may  disproportionately  affect our
revenues:

          o    political  and  economic  instability  may inhibit  export of our
               systems and devices and limit potential customers' access to U.S.
               dollars;
          o    shipping and installation costs of our systems may increase;
          o    we may experience difficulties in the timeliness of collection of
               foreign   accounts   receivable   and  be  forced  to  write  off
               receivables  from foreign  customers;
          o    a strong  dollar may make our systems less  attractive to foreign
               purchasers  who  may  decide  to  postpone  making  such  capital
               expenditures;
          o    tariffs and other  barriers may make our systems and devices less
               cost  competitive;
          o    we may have difficulty in staffing and managing our international
               operations;
          o    the laws of certain foreign countries may not adequately  protect
               our trade secrets and intellectual property; and
          o    potentially  adverse tax  consequences  to our customers may make
               our systems and devices not cost-competitive.


We Will Lose Sales If We Are Unable To Obtain Government Authorization To Export
Our Products.

          Exports of our products to certain destinations,  such as the People's
Republic of China,  Malaysia and Taiwan, may require pre-shipment  authorization
from U.S. export control authorities, including the U.S. Departments of Commerce
and State. Authorization may be conditioned on end-use restrictions.  On certain
occasions,  we have been denied authorization,  particularly with respect to the
People's  Republic  of  China.  Failure  to  receive  these  authorizations  may
materially and adversely affect our revenues and in turn our business, financial
condition  and results of operations  from  international  sales.  Additionally,
export jurisdiction  relating to exports of satellites and associated components
has not been  definitively  settled.  Such  exports may in the future  require a
license from the  Department of State.  This may cause delays in shipping  solar
cells abroad. Delays in receiving export licenses for solar cells may materially
and adversely affect our revenues and in turn our business,  financial condition
and results of operations.


Our  Operating  Results  Could Be  Harmed If We Lose  Access To Sole Or  Limited
Sources Of Materials Or Services.

          We currently obtain some components and services for our products from
limited or single  sources.  We  purchase  these  components  and  services on a
purchase order basis, do not carry  significant  inventories of these components
and do not have any long-term  supply  contracts with these vendors.  Because we
often do not account for a significant part of our vendors' business, we may not
have access to sufficient capacity from these vendors in periods of high demand.
If we were to change any of our  limited  or sole  source  vendors,  we would be
required to re-qualify each new vendor.  Re-qualification could prevent or delay
product  shipments that could  negatively  affect our results of operations.  In
addition,  our reliance on these vendors may negatively affect our production if
the  components  vary in quality or quantity.  If we are unable to obtain timely
deliveries  of sufficient  components of acceptable  quality or if the prices of
components for which we do not have alternative sources increase,  our business,
financial  condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely
affected.


                                                                              22


<PAGE>


Our Products Are Difficult To Manufacture And Our Production  Could Be Disrupted
If We Are Unable To Avoid Manufacturing Difficulties

          We  manufacture  all of our  wafers and  devices in our  manufacturing
facilities.  Minute impurities,  difficulties in the production process, defects
in the layering of the devices' constituent  compounds,  wafer breakage or other
factors can cause a substantial  percentage of wafers and devices to be rejected
or numerous devices on each wafer to be non-functional. These factors can result
in lower than expected  production  yields,  which would delay product shipments
and  may  materially  and  adversely  affect  our  operating  results.  We  have
experienced  difficulties in achieving planned yields in the past,  particularly
in  pre-production  and upon initial  commencement of full  production  volumes,
which have  adversely  affected our gross  margins.  Because the majority of our
costs of manufacture are relatively  fixed, the number of shippable  devices per
wafer for a given product is critical to our financial results. Therefore, it is
critical  for us to  improve  the  number  of  shippable  product  per wafer and
increase  the  production  volume of wafers in order to maintain and improve our
results of operations.  Additionally, because we manufacture all of our products
at our  facilities  in Somerset,  New Jersey and  Albuquerque,  New Mexico,  any
interruption in manufacturing  resulting from fire, natural disaster,  equipment
failures or  otherwise  would  materially  and  adversely  affect our  business,
financial condition and results of operations.


We Face Lengthy  Sales And  Qualifications  Cycles For Our Products And, In Many
Cases,  Must  Invest A  Substantial  Amount Of Time And Funds  Before We Receive
Orders.

          Sales of our TurboDisc systems primarily depend upon the decision of a
prospective  customer to increase its  manufacturing  capacity,  which typically
involves a significant  capital  commitment by the customer.  Customers  usually
place  orders with us between two to nine months,  or longer,  after our initial
contact with them. We often  experience  delays in obtaining system sales orders
while  customers  evaluate and receive  internal  approvals  for the purchase of
these systems.  These delays may include the time  necessary to plan,  design or
complete a new or expanded compound  semiconductor  fabrication facility. Due to
these factors,  we expend substantial funds and sales,  marketing and management
efforts  to  sell  our  compound   semiconductor   production   systems.   These
expenditures and efforts may not result in sales.

          In order to expand  our  materials  production  capabilities,  we have
dedicated a number of our  TurboDisc  systems to the  manufacture  of wafers and
devices. Several of our products are currently being tested to determine whether
they meet customer or industry specifications. During this qualification period,
we invest significant resources and dedicate substantial  production capacity to
the  manufacture  of these new products,  prior to any commitment to purchase by
the prospective  customer and without generating  significant  revenues from the
qualification  process. If we are unable to meet these  specifications or do not
receive sufficient orders to profitably use the dedicated  production  capacity,
our business,  financial condition and results of operations would be materially
and adversely affected.

          Our  historical  and future  budgets for operating  expenses,  capital
expenditures,  operating  leases  and  service  contracts  are  based  upon  our
assumptions as to the anticipated market acceptance of our products.  Because of
the lengthy lead time  required for our product  development  and the changes in
technology that typically occur during such period,  it is difficult to estimate
customer  demand  for a  product  accurately.  If our  products  do not  achieve
expected  customer  demand,  our  business,  financial  condition and results of
operation will be materially and adversely affected.


Industry  Demand For Skilled  Employees,  Particularly  Scientific And Technical
Personnel With Compound Semiconductor Experience,  Exceeds The Number Of Skilled
Personnel Available.

          Our future  success  depends,  in part,  on our ability to attract and
retain certain key personnel,  including scientific,  operational and management
personnel.  The  competition  for  attracting  and  retaining  these  employees,
especially scientists, is intense. Because of this intense competition for these
skilled employees,  we may be unable to retain our existing personnel or attract
additional  qualified  employees  in the future.  If we are unable to retain our
skilled employees and attract additional qualified employees to keep up with our
expansion,  our business,  financial condition and results of operations will be
materially and adversely affected.


                                                                              23


<PAGE>


Protecting Our Trade Secrets And Obtaining Patent Protection Is Critical To Our
Ability To Effectively Compete For Business.

          Our success and  competitive  position  depend on protecting our trade
secrets and other intellectual  property.  Our strategy is to rely both on trade
secrets  and  patents to  protect  our  manufacturing  and sales  processes  and
products.  Reliance  on trade  secrets is only an  effective  business  practice
insofar as trade secrets remain undisclosed and a proprietary product or process
is not reverse engineered or independently  developed.  We take certain measures
to protect our trade secrets, including executing non-disclosure agreements with
our employees,  our joint venture partner,  customers and suppliers.  If parties
breach these agreements or the measures we take are not properly implemented, we
may not have an  adequate  remedy.  Disclosure  of our trade  secrets or reverse
engineering of our proprietary  products,  processes or devices could materially
and  adversely  affect  our  business,   financial   condition  and  results  of
operations.

          This is no  assurance  that any patents  will  afford us  commercially
significant  protection  of our  technologies  or  that we  will  have  adequate
resources to enforce our patents.  We are actively  pursuing  patents on some of
our recent inventions.  In addition, the laws of certain other countries may not
protect our intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws.


Our Failure To Obtain Or Maintain The Right To Use Certain Intellectual Property
May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results.

          The   compound   semiconductor,    optoelectronics,   and   fiberoptic
communications  industries are  characterized by frequent  litigation  regarding
patent  and  other  intellectual  property  rights.  From  time  to time we have
received  and may receive in the  future,  notice of claims of  infringement  of
other parties'  proprietary  rights and licensing offers to commercialize  third
party patent  rights.  Although we are not currently  involved in any litigation
relating to our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that:

          o    infringement claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from
               infringement claims) will not be asserted against us or that such
               claims will not be successful;

          o    future  assertions  will not result in an injunction  against the
               sale of infringing products or otherwise significantly impair our
               business and results of operations; or

          o    we will not be required to obtain licenses,  the expense of which
               may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.


Interruptions In Our Business And A Significant Loss Of Sales To Asia May Result
If Our Primary Asian  Distributor  Fails To  Effectively  Market And Service Our
Products.

          We rely on a single  marketing,  distribution  and  service  provider,
Hakuto Co. Ltd. to market and service many of our  products in Japan,  China and
Singapore.  Hakuto is one of our shareholders and Hakuto's president is a member
of our Board of Directors. We have distributorship  agreements with Hakuto which
expire in March 2008 and give Hakuto exclusive  distribution  rights for certain
of our products in Japan. Hakuto's failure to effectively market and service our
products  or  termination  of our  relationship  with  Hakuto  could  result  in
significant  delays or  interruption  in our marketing  and service  programs in
Asia.  This  could  materially  and  adversely  affect our  business,  financial
condition and results of operations.


Our  Management's  Stock  Ownership  Gives  Them The Power To  Control  Business
Affairs  And  Prevent  A  Takeover  That  Could Be  Beneficial  To  Unaffiliated
Shareholders.

          Certain  members of our  management,  specifically  Thomas J. Russell,
Chairman of our Board,  Reuben F.  Richards,  Jr.,  President,  Chief  Executive
Officer and a director, and Robert Louis-Dreyfus, a director, are former members
of Jesup & Lamont Merchant Partners,  L.L.C. They collectively  beneficially own
more than 20% of our common  stock.  Accordingly,  such persons will continue to
hold  sufficient  voting  power to control  our  business  and  affairs  for the
foreseeable  future. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of
delaying,  deferring or  preventing  a change in control of our  company,  which
could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.


                                                                              24


<PAGE>


Unsuccessful  Control Of The Hazardous Raw Materials  Used In Our  Manufacturing
Process  Could Result In Costly  Remediation  Fees,  Penalties Or Damages  Under
Environmental And Safety Regulations.

          The  production  of wafers  and  devices  involves  the use of certain
hazardous raw materials,  including, but not limited to, ammonia,  phosphine and
arsine. If our control systems are unsuccessful in preventing a release of these
materials into the environment or other adverse environmental  conditions occur,
we could  experience  interruptions  in our  operations  and  incur  substantial
remediation and other costs. Failure to comply with environmental and health and
safety laws and  regulations  may materially and adversely  affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.


Our  Business  Or Our Stock  Price  Could Be  Adversely  Affected By Issuance Of
Preferred Stock.

          Our board of directors is authorized  to issue up to 5,882,352  shares
of preferred stock with such dividend  rates,  liquidation  preferences,  voting
rights,  redemption  and  conversion  terms  and  privileges  as  our  board  of
directors,  in its sole  discretion,  may  determine.  The issuance of shares of
preferred  stock may  result in a decrease  in the value or market  price of our
common stock,  or our board of directors  could use the preferred stock to delay
or discourage  hostile bids for control of us in which  shareholders may receive
premiums for their  common stock or to make the possible  sale of the company or
the  removal  of our  management  more  difficult.  The  issuance  of  shares of
preferred  stock  could  adversely  affect the  voting  and other  rights of the
holders of common stock.


Certain  Provisions Of New Jersey Law And Our Charter May Make A Takeover Of Our
Company  Difficult  Even If Such  Takeover  Could Be  Beneficial  To Some Of Our
Shareholders.

          New Jersey  law and our  certificate  of  incorporation,  as  amended,
contain certain  provisions that could delay or prevent a takeover  attempt that
our shareholders may consider in their best interests. Our board of directors is
divided into three classes.  Directors are elected to serve staggered three-year
terms and are not subject to removal except for cause by the vote of the holders
of at least 80% of our capital  stock.  In addition,  approval by the holders of
80% of our voting stock is required  for certain  business  combinations  unless
these transactions meet certain fair price criteria and procedural  requirements
or are approved by two-thirds of our continuing directors.  We may in the future
adopt other  measures  that may have the effect of delaying or  discouraging  an
unsolicited takeover, even if the takeover were at a premium price or favored by
a  majority  of  unaffiliated  shareholders.  Certain of these  measures  may be
adopted without any further vote or action by our shareholders.


The Price Of Our  Common  Stock Has  Fluctuated  Widely In The Last Year And May
Fluctuate Widely In The Future.

          Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ  National  Market,  which has
experienced  and  may  continue  to  experience  significant  price  and  volume
fluctuations  that could  adversely  affect the market price of our common stock
without  regard to our  operating  performance.  In  addition,  we believe  that
factors such as quarterly  fluctuations  in financial  results,  earnings  below
analysts'  estimates,  and financial  performance and other  activities of other
publicly traded companies in the semiconductor industry could cause the price of
our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent periods, our
common  stock,  the stock market in general,  and the market for shares of small
capitalization  and semiconductor  industry-related  stocks in particular,  have
experienced  extreme price  fluctuations  which have often been unrelated to the
operating  performance of affected  companies.  Any similar  fluctuations in the
future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

          Our  stock  price  has  fluctuated  widely  in the  last  year and may
fluctuate  widely in the future.  Since  September 30, 2000, our stock price has
been as high as $55.38  per share and as low as $7.67 per share.  Volatility  in
the price of our  common  stock may be caused by other  factors  outside  of our
control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results.


                                                                              25


<PAGE>


The  Markets  In Which  We  Compete  Are  Highly  Competitive.  An  Increase  In
Competition Would Limit Our Ability To Maintain And Increase Our Market Share.

          We face substantial  competition  from a number of companies,  many of
which have greater financial, marketing,  manufacturing and technical resources.
Larger  competitors  could spend more on research and  development,  which could
give those  competitors an advantage in meeting customer demand.  We expect that
existing and new competitors will improve the design of their existing  products
and will introduce new products with enhanced performance  characteristics.  The
introduction of new products or more efficient  production of existing  products
by our competitors could diminish our market share and gross margins.
