ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms "we," "our,"
"Fairchild" and "Fairchild International" refer to Fairchild Semiconductor
International, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Fairchild
Semiconductor Corporation, our principal operating subsidiary. We refer to
specific subsidiaries where appropriate.

     During 1999, we changed our fiscal year-end from the last Sunday in May to
the last Sunday in December. Our last fiscal year under our old accounting
calendar was the year ended May 30, 1999, which we refer to as "Fiscal 1999."
Our first fiscal year following this change was the year ended December 31,
2000, which we refer to as "Calendar 2000." We sometimes refer to the transition
period from May 31, 1999 to December 26, 1999 as "Stub Year 1999."

GENERAL

     We are one of the largest independent semiconductor companies focused
solely on developing, manufacturing and selling high performance semiconductors
critical to multiple end markets. We design, develop and market analog,
discrete, interface and logic, non-volatile memory and optoelectronic
semiconductors. Within our broad product portfolio, we focus on providing
discrete and analog power management and interface solutions. Over half of our
trade sales in Calendar 2001 were from discrete and analog products used
directly in power applications such as voltage conversion, power regulation,
power distribution, and power and battery management. With the acquisition in
Calendar 2001 of the discrete power products business from Intersil Corporation,
which we refer to as DPP, we believe that we are now the world's leading
supplier of power analog and power discrete products. Our products are used as
building block components in a wide variety of electronic applications,
including sophisticated computers and internet hardware; communications;
networking and storage equipment; industrial power supply and instrumentation
equipment; portable digital consumer cameras, displays, audio/video devices,
household appliances; and automotive ignition applications. Because of their
basic functionality, our products provide customers with greater design
flexibility than more highly integrated products and improve the performance of
more complex devices or systems. Given these characteristics, our products have
a wide range of applications. Our products are sold to customers in the personal
computer, industrial, communications, consumer electronics and automotive
markets.

     With a history dating back more than 40 years, the original Fairchild was
one of the founders of the semiconductor industry. Established in 1959 as a
provider of memory and logic semiconductors, the Fairchild Semiconductor
business was acquired by Schlumberger Limited in 1979 and by National
Semiconductor Corporation in 1987. In March 1997, as part of its
recapitalization, much of the Fairchild Semiconductor business was sold to a
new, independent company -- Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation. At the time of
the recapitalization, our company consisted of the discrete, logic and
non-volatile memory businesses of National Semiconductor. On December 31, 1997,
we acquired Raytheon Company's semiconductor business for approximately $117.0
million in cash. That business designs, manufactures and markets
high-performance analog and mixed signal semiconductors for the personal
computer, communications, broadcast video and industrial markets.

     On April 13, 1999, we purchased the power device business of Samsung
Electronics Co., Ltd. for approximately $414.9 million in cash, including fees
and expenses. The power device business designs, manufactures and markets power
discrete semiconductors and standard analog integrated circuits serving the
personal computer, industrial, communications and consumer electronics markets.
The acquisition of the power device business not only enhanced our analog and
power discrete product offerings, but also provided us with a greater market
presence in South Korea. In connection with the acquisition of the power device
business, the Korean government granted a ten-year tax holiday. The exemption
from corporate income tax was 100% for the first seven years of the holiday and
50% for the remaining three years of the holiday. During Calendar 2000, the tax
holiday was extended such that the exemption amounts were increased to 75% in
the eighth year and a 25% exemption was added for the eleventh year.

                                        2
<PAGE>

     On May 28, 2000, we purchased QT Optoelectronics, Inc. for approximately
$92.0 million in cash and common stock. QT Optoelectronics designs, manufactures
and markets LED lamps and displays, infrared components, custom optoelectronics
and optocouplers and is the world's largest independent company solely focused
on optoelectronics. This acquisition gave us a position in a $4.2 billion
market. Revenue opportunities exist in being able to offer these products to
existing Fairchild customers who were purchasing from competitors.

     On September 8, 2000, we purchased the power management business of Micro
Linear for approximately $11.0 million in cash. That business consists of analog
products including offline power switches, low power battery management, video
filters and bus terminators. This acquisition expanded the breadth of our
overall position in the power management analog business.

     On September 8, 2000, we purchased KOTA Microcircuits, Inc., or KOTA, for
approximately $12.1 million in cash. That business designs, manufactures and
markets high-performance operational amplifiers and other standard linear
products. This acquisition positioned us with leading technology in the
operational amplifier market, and expanded our penetration into markets that
include cellular phones, CD-ROM drives and portable applications.

     On March 16, 2001 we acquired substantially all of the assets of, and
assumed certain liabilities of DPP for approximately $344.2 million in cash. DPP
designs, manufactures and markets power discrete semiconductors serving the
personal computer, industrial power supply and automotive ignition control
markets. The acquisition of this business enhanced our power discrete product
portfolio and gave us greater market presence in the U.S. and European
automotive and industrial markets.

     On September 5, 2001, we acquired Impala Linear Corporation for
approximately $4.6 million paid in common stock. That business designs analog
power management semiconductors for a wide range of portable devices including
laptops, MP3 players, cell phones, portable test equipment and PDAs.

PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY

     We are a global company focused on designing, manufacturing and marketing
high performance building block semiconductors critical for multiple end
markets, with a focus on developing leading edge power and interface solutions.
Our products are used in consumer, communications, computer, industrial and
automotive applications. Our products are organized into the following three
principal product groups that are reportable segments: Analog and Mixed Signal
Products, Discrete Products and Interface and Logic Products. Other products
include non-volatile memory and optoelectronics.

  ANALOG AND MIXED SIGNAL PRODUCTS

     We design, manufacture and market high-performance analog and mixed signal
integrated circuits for computing, consumer, communications and industrial
applications. These products are manufactured using leading-edge Bipolar, CMOS,
BiCMOS and BCDMOS technologies. Analog and mixed signal products represent a
significant long-term growth area of the semiconductor industry.

     We offer over 2,600 different analog and mixed signal device products in a
fast growing number of proprietary part types. The development of proprietary
parts is largely driven by evolving end-system requirements and needs for higher
integration, which in turn is driven by trends toward smaller form factors at
higher performance levels. Our product offering also includes the top 100 best
selling multi-sourced product types. Major competitors include Analog Devices,
Linear Technology, Maxim, Intersil, National Semiconductor and Texas
Instruments.

     Analog products monitor, interpret and control continuously variable
functions such as light, color, sound and energy. Frequently, they form the
interface with the digital world. We provide a wide range of analog products
relating to power conversion, temperature sensing, system management, battery
chargers and motor controls. Our power switch products, also called FPS for
Fairchild Power Switch, are a series of proprietary, multichip or monolithic
devices with integrated MOSFETs (Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect
Transmittors), which provide complete off-line (AC-DC) power converter designs
for use in power supplies
                                        3
<PAGE>

and battery chargers. These products are used in a variety of computing,
communications and consumer applications.

     In addition to power related analog circuits, we offer signal path products
like operational amplifiers and comparators, data conversion products, video
encoders/decoders, video filters, and micro-controller based system management
integrated circuits.

     We believe our analog and mixed signal product portfolio is further
enhanced by a broad offering of packaging solutions that we have developed.
These solutions include surface mount, tiny packages, and leadless carriers.

  DISCRETE PRODUCTS

     We design, manufacture and market discrete devices for computing,
automotive, communications and industrial applications. Discrete devices are
individual diodes or transistors that perform basic signal amplification and
switching functions in electronic circuits. Driving the long-term growth of
discretes is the increasing need to power the latest electronic equipment as
well as needs to conserve power. We participate in both the power and small
signal discrete markets using our DMOS and Bipolar technologies, manufacturing
semiconductors that condition power or signals for use by other devices. The
acquisition of DPP gives us an expanded presence in the automotive and
industrial markets. Major competitors are Philips, Infineon, International
Rectifier and Siliconix/Vishay.

     Power MOSFETs.  Power MOSFETs are used in applications to switch, shape or
transfer electricity under varying power requirements. We are the world's No. 2
supplier of discrete power MOSFETs, according to the Gartner Group. These
products are used in a variety of high-growth applications including computers,
communications, automotive and industrial supplies, which require low-voltage
solutions. We produce advanced MOSFETs under our PowerTrench(R) and UltraFET(R)
brands. MOSFETs enable computers, automobiles, handsets, power supplies and
other products to operate under harsh conditions while providing efficient
operation.

     Isolated-Gate Bipolar Transistors.  IGBTs are high-voltage discrete
devices. They are used in switching applications for motor control, power
supplies, and automotive ignition systems. We are a leading supplier of IGBTs.
We feature the SMPS IGBT for power supplies offering the fastest, most
cost-effective operation in some applications. We also manufacture modules for
air conditioners -- an application that is growing with the worldwide need to
conserve power.

     Rectifiers.  Rectifier products work with IGBTs and MOSFETs in many
applications to provide signal conditioning. Our premier product is the
Stealth(TM) rectifier, providing industry leading performance and efficiencies
in power supply and motor applications.

  INTERFACE AND LOGIC PRODUCTS

     We design, develop, manufacture and market high-performance interface and
logic devices utilizing three wafer fabrication processes: CMOS, BiCMOS and
Bipolar. Within each of these production processes, we manufacture products that
possess advanced performance characteristics, as well as mature products that
provide high performance at low cost to customers.

     Interface Products.  Interface products generally connect signals from one
part of a system to another part of a system. Typical interface applications
include backplane driving, bus driving, clock driving and 'box-to-box' or
system-to-system interconnects. These applications all require high speed, high
current drive and low noise attributes. These types of products are mixed signal
in nature and require a high level of analog wave shaping techniques on the
output structures, reducing the number of suppliers with the capability to
develop them. We believe we have developed some unique competencies and patented
circuit techniques along with a broad range of process technologies, which
facilitate our expansion in the interface market.

     The interface market is divided into two categories: "building block
interface" and "standards-specific interface products." Current building block
products include our FST and GTL product families and our

                                        4
<PAGE>

recent expansion into Low Voltage Differential Swing (LVDS) input/output (I/O)
products. Standards-specific products are normally based on industry standards,
which are developed by consortiums of hardware suppliers, software suppliers,
end segment customers and industry experts. We are an active participant on many
committees where industry standards are developed, and have product offerings in
printer interface, dual inline memory module drivers and Universal Serial Bus
applications. Our product roadmap will expand beyond our current switch, GRLP
and LVDS building blocks to Switch Fabric Interface (SFI) physical layer I/O.
Major competitors include Texas Instruments, National Semiconductor, Maxim and
Linear Technology.

     Logic Products.  Logic products perform a variety of functions in a system
mostly in the interface between larger application-specific integrated circuits,
microprocessors, memory components or connectors. Products are typically
categorized into mature segments and advanced logic segments. Mature products
are generally more than five years old, while advanced products tend to be
newer. Since market adoption rates of new standard logic families have
historically spanned several years, we continue to generate significant revenues
from our mature products. Customers are typically slow to move from an older
product to a newer one. Further, for any given product, standard logic customers
use several different generations of logic products in their designs. As a
result, typical life cycles for logic families are often between 20 and 25
years.

     Investments in mature products tend to focus on cost reductions and
manufacturing improvements. Our investments in new products are in the advanced
logic area and focuses on power minimization, low voltage and packaging
innovations. Some of the targeted products are TinyLogic(TM)and low voltage
products. Many of these investments have established our logic devices as key
components for the personal computer and portable markets, including cell
phones, PDAs and similar battery-based products. Major competitors include Texas
Instruments, ON Semiconductor and Philips.

  OTHER PRODUCTS

     Included within the "Other" reporting segment are non-volatile memory
products and optoelectronic products.

Non-Volatile Memory Products

     We design, manufacture and market non-volatile memory integrated circuits,
which are storage devices that retain data after power to the device has been
shut off. We offer an extensive portfolio of high performance serial EEPROM and
EPROM products. EEPROMs are electrically erasable programmable read-only
memories. EPROMs are electrically programmable read-only memories. These
non-volatile memory devices are used in computing, communications, consumer,
automotive and industrial applications. Major competitors include ST
Microelectronics, Advanced Micro Devices, Atmel and Microchip Technology.

     EEPROMs. EEPROMs are used primarily to store changing information in
consumer products and automotive applications such as cellular handsets,
microwave ovens, televisions and automotive controls. Our standard EEPROM
products serve each of the three serial bus interface protocols used with all
industry standard microcontrollers.

     EPROMs. EPROMs are field programmable non-volatile memories for storage of
codes and data. EPROMs are a lower cost alternative to FLASH memories and enable
shorter time-to-market cycles for new products. Today, EPROMs are primarily
utilized in applications where storage of the instruction set for
microcontrollers requires less than 2Mb in density, which is virtually all
segments of the low-end consumer electronic market (for example, answering
machines, garage door openers and washing machines). The EPROM market is
declining as FLASH becomes cost-effective at lower densities. As a result, we
are incurring minimal research and development expenditures in this product
line. We currently sell EPROMs in densities ranging from 64K to 4Mb.

Optoelectronic Products

     Optoelectronics covers a wide range of semiconductor devices that emit,
sense and display both visible and infrared light. Of the six segments of the
optoelectronics market, we participate in four: optocouplers,

                                        5
<PAGE>

infrared, LED lamps and displays. Our focus in optoelectronics is aligned with
our analog business. We address the same applications and can combine functions
in an optimal way to provide real system solutions. One such solution is an
optically isolated error amplifier that combines the function of an analog
voltage reference and an error amplifier with the function of an optocoupler.
This creates an ideal single chip component solution for isolated AC-DC
converter applications.

     Optocouplers.  Optocouplers incorporate infrared emitter and detector
combinations in a single package. These products are used to transmit signals
between two electronic circuits while maintaining electrical isolation between
them. Major applications for these devices include power supplies, modems, motor
controls and power modules.

     Infrared Products.  These devices emit and detect infrared energy instead
of visible energy. This product line offers a wide variety of products including
plastic emitters and detectors, metal can emitters and detectors, slotted
switches and reflective switches. In addition, custom products address specific
types of customer applications. Typical applications for infrared products
include object detection (for example, paper sensing in printers and copiers and
garage door safety sensors), data transmission (for example, remote controls in
televisions, stereos, VCRs and wireless data links between computers and other
electronic devices), and motor control.

     LED Lamps and Displays.  These devices are replacing general illumination
applications currently served by incandescent and fluorescent lighting products.
The main advantages are power savings and longer life. This product line
includes stick and frame displays, which are used in a broad range of consumer
electronics products as well as T-1 and T-1 3/4 lamps that are used in consumer,
industrial/instrument and signage industries.

SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

     In Calendar 2001, we derived approximately 36.6%, 6.9% and 56.5% of our net
trade sales from original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing
services customers and distributors, respectively, through our regional sales
organizations. We operate regional sales organizations in Europe, headquartered
in Wootton-Bassett, England; the Americas, headquartered in San Jose,
California; the Asia/Pacific region, with offices in Hong Kong; the Japan
region, with offices in Tokyo, Japan; and the Korea region, with its office in
Bucheon, South Korea. Each of the regional sales organizations is supported by
logistics organizations, which manage independently operated free-on-board
warehouses. Product orders flow to our manufacturing facilities, where products
are made. Products are then shipped either directly to customers or indirectly
to customers through independently operated warehouses in Hong Kong, the United
States and the United Kingdom.

     We have dedicated direct sales organizations operating in Europe, the
Americas, the Asia/Pacific region, Japan and Korea that serve our major original
equipment manufacturer and electronic manufacturing services customers. We also
have a large network of distributors and independent manufacturer's
representatives to distribute and sell our products around the world. We believe
that maintaining a small, highly focused, direct sales force selling products
for each of our businesses, combined with an extensive network of distributors
and manufacturer's representatives, is the most efficient way to serve our
multi-market customer base. Fairchild also maintains a dedicated marketing
organization, which consists of marketing organizations in each product group,
including tactical and strategic marketing and applications, as well as
marketing personnel located in each of the sales regions.

     Typically, distributors handle a wide variety of products, including
products that compete with our products, and fill orders for many customers.
Some of our sales to distributors, primarily in North America, are made under
agreements allowing for market price fluctuations and/or the right of return on
unsold merchandise, subject to time and volume limitations. The majority of
these distribution agreements contain a standard stock rotation provision
allowing for minimum levels of inventory returns. In our experience, these
inventory returns can usually be resold. Manufacturer's representatives
generally do not offer products that compete directly with our products, but may
carry complementary items manufactured by others. Manufacturer's representatives
do not maintain a product inventory; instead, their customers place large
quantity orders directly with us and are referred to distributors for smaller
orders.
                                        6
<PAGE>

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Our expenditures for research and development in Calendar 2001, Calendar
2000, Stub Year 1999, and Fiscal 1999 were $83.0 million, $83.9 million, $35.0
million, and $39.3 million, respectively. These expenditures represented 6.2%,
5.0%, 4.9% and 6.0% of trade sales in Calendar 2001, Calendar 2000, Stub Year
1999, and Fiscal 1999, respectively. Manufacturing technology is a key
determinant in the improvement of semiconductor products. Each new generation of
process technology has resulted in products with higher speed and greater
performance, produced at lower cost. We expect infrastructure investments made
in recent years to enable us to continue to achieve high volume, high
reliability and low-cost production using leading edge process technology. Our
research and development efforts are also focused on innovative packaging
solutions such as Micropak(TM) and FLMP (Flipped Leaded Molded Package), making
use of new assembly methods and new high performance packaging materials, which
enhance the overall performance and value of both our new and existing products
for our customers.

     Each of our product groups maintains independent research and development
organizations. We work closely with our major customers in many research and
development situations in order to increase the likelihood that our products
will be designed directly into the customers' products and achieve rapid and
lasting market acceptance.

MANUFACTURING

     We operate ten manufacturing facilities, five of which are front-end wafer
fabrication plants in the United States, South Korea and Singapore, and five of
which are back-end assembly and test facilities in the United States and Asia.
In addition, in 2001 we acquired land in Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, China, where
construction of an assembly and test facility is scheduled to begin in 2002.

     Our products are manufactured and designed using a broad range of
manufacturing processes and proprietary design methods. We use all of the
prevalent function-oriented process technologies for wafer fabrication,
including CMOS, Bipolar, BiCMOS, DMOS and non-volatile memory technologies. We
use primarily through-hole and mature and advanced surface mount technologies in
our assembly and test operations, in lead counts from two to 114 leads.

     The table below sets forth information with respect to our manufacturing
facilities, products and technologies.

                            MANUFACTURING FACILITIES

<Table>
<Caption>
LOCATION                                 PRODUCTS                      TECHNOLOGIES
--------                                 --------                      ------------
<S>                            <C>                             <C>
FRONT-END FACILITIES:
Mountaintop, Pennsylvania      Discrete Power Semiconductors   6 inch fab -- 3.0 micron 8
                               MOSFET/IGBT/Rectifiers          inch fab -- 0.8 micron
South Portland, Maine          Bipolar, CMOS and BiCMOS        4-inch fab -- 5.0/3.0 micron
                               Interface and logic products    5- inch fab -- 3.0/1.5 micron
                               Standard Linear products Op     6- inch fab -- 1.5/0.5 micron
                               Amps, Ground Fault              CMOS and BiCMOS
                               Interruptors
Salt Lake City, Utah           EPROMs, EEPROMs, ACE and USB    6-inch fab -- 1.0/0.65 micron
                               Discrete Power Semiconductors   CMOS EPROM 2.0/0.8 micron
                                                               CMOS EPROM 2.0 micron DMOS
Bucheon, South Korea           Discrete Power                  4-inch fab -- 5.0/4.0 micron
                               Semiconductors, standard        Bipolar 5-inch fab -- 2.0/0.8
                               analog integrated circuits      micron Bipolar and DMOS 6-
                                                               inch fab -- 2.0/0.8 micron
                                                               DMOS
Singapore                      Optocoupler/infrared            Infrared die fab
</Table>

                                        7
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
LOCATION                                 PRODUCTS                      TECHNOLOGIES
--------                                 --------                      ------------
<S>                            <C>                             <C>
BACK-END FACILITIES:
Penang, Malaysia               Bipolar, CMOS and BiCMOS        MDIP, SOIC, EIAJ, TSSOP,
                               interface and logic products    SSOP, SC-70
Cebu, the Philippines          Power and small signal          TO92, SOT-23, Super SOT,
                               discrete                        SOT-223, TO220, TO263, DPAK,
                                                               SC-70, BGA, FLMP
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia         Optocouplers                    SOIC, MFP
Wuxi, China                    Infrared/LED Lamps and          T-1, T-1  3/4, SMD, Custom
                               Displays
Loveland, Colorado             Operational Amplifiers          Hybrid
</Table>

     We subcontract a minority of our wafer fabrication needs, primarily to
Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation of Shanghai, Chartered
Semiconductor, Torex Semiconductor and New Japan Radio Corporation. In order to
maximize our production capacity, some of our back-end assembly and testing
operations are also subcontracted. Primary back-end subcontractors include
Carsem, Amkor, NS Electronics (Bangkok) Ltd., Samsung Electronics and ChipPAC.
The power device business also subcontracts other manufacturing services from
Samsung Electronics.

     Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon
wafers, copper lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various
chemicals and gases. We obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large
number of sources on a just-in-time basis. Although supplies for the raw
materials used by us are currently adequate, shortages could occur in various
essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the
industry.

BACKLOG

     Backlog at the end of Calendar 2001 was approximately $310 million, down
from approximately $426 million at the end of Calendar 2000. We define backlog
as firm orders or customer-provided forecasts with a customer requested delivery
date within 26 weeks. While backlog has declined primarily as a result of the
lower demand for our products from the year earlier period, it has also been
impacted by the tendency of customers to rely on shorter lead times available
from suppliers, including us, in periods of depressed demand. In periods of
increased demand, there is a tendency towards longer lead times that has the
effect of increasing backlog and, in some instances, we may not have
manufacturing capacity sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is customary in the
semiconductor industry, we allow orders to be canceled or deliveries delayed by
customers without penalty. Accordingly, our backlog at any time should not be
used as an indication of future revenues.

SEASONALITY

     Generally, we are affected by the seasonal trends of the semiconductor and
related industries. Typically, we see revenues higher in the second and fourth
quarters, lower in the first quarter due to holidays around the world and lower
in the third quarter due to the historically slow summer months. In Stub Year
1999 and throughout most of Calendar 2000, however, typical seasonality was
offset by the effects of the recovery of the overall semiconductor market, as we
recorded sequential revenue increases in each quarter. At the end of Calendar
2000 and throughout Calendar 2001, we saw atypical quarterly revenue trends as a
result of the weakened economic conditions within the semiconductor industry and
technology sector.

COMPETITION

     Markets for our products are highly competitive. Although only a few
companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant
competition within each of our product lines from major international
semiconductor companies. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater
financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing,
marketing and distribution of their products.

                                        8
<PAGE>

Competitors include manufacturers of standard semiconductors,
application-specific integrated circuits and fully customized integrated
circuits, as well as customers who develop their own integrated circuit
products.

     We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the basis of
price, technical performance, product features, product system compatibility,
customized design, availability, quality and sales and technical support. Our
ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of
our control, including successful and timely development of new products and
manufacturing processes, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields
and product availability, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general
economic trends.

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS

     Our corporate policy is to protect proprietary products by obtaining
patents for such products when practicable. Under a technology licensing and
transfer agreement with National Semiconductor entered into in connection with
the recapitalization of the Fairchild Semiconductor business, we acquired
approximately 150 U.S. patents and obtained perpetual, royalty-free,
non-exclusive licenses on approximately 250 of National Semiconductor's patents.
We acquired over 60 patents as part of our acquisition of the Raytheon
semiconductor business, as well as licensing rights (similar to those granted to
Fairchild by National Semiconductor), for other semiconductor-related
intellectual property of Raytheon not directly related to its semiconductor
business. Similarly, in our acquisition of the power device business, we
acquired from Samsung Electronics a significant number of licenses and patents,
including approximately 76 U.S. patents and over 1,000 Korean patents. We also
received all relevant trademarks. From the acquisitions of QT Optoelectronics,
KOTA and Micro Linear, we added in excess of 50 U.S. and five foreign patents
and patent applications to our intellectual property portfolio. Finally, from
the DPP acquisition, we obtained over 500 patents or patent applications
worldwide. We believe that we have the right to use all technology used in the
production of our products.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the
countries in which we operate that regulate, among other things, air and water
emissions and discharges at or from our manufacturing facilities; the
generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous
materials by our company; the investigation and remediation of environmental
contamination; and the release of hazardous materials into the environment at or
from properties operated by our company and at other sites. As with other
companies engaged in like businesses, the nature of our operations exposes our
company to the risk of liabilities and claims, regardless of fault, with respect
to such matters, including personal injury claims and civil and criminal fines.

     Our facilities in South Portland, Maine, and, to a lesser extent, Salt Lake
City, Utah, have ongoing remediation projects to respond to releases of
hazardous materials that occurred prior to our separation from National
Semiconductor. National Semiconductor has agreed to indemnify Fairchild for the
cost of these projects, subject to limitations. Based on the historical costs of
these projects, we do not believe that future remediation costs will be
material, even without the indemnification from National Semiconductor.

     Our facility in Mountaintop, Pennsylvania has an ongoing remediation
project to respond to releases of hazardous materials that occurred prior to our
acquisition of the DPP business. Intersil Corporation has agreed to indemnify us
for specific environmental issues.

     A property we previously owned in Mountain View, California is listed on
the National Priorities List under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act. We acquired that property as part of the
acquisition of the Raytheon semiconductor business. Under the terms of the
acquisition agreement with Raytheon, Raytheon retained responsibility for, and
has agreed to indemnify us with respect to, remediation costs or other
liabilities related to pre-acquisition contamination. The purchaser of the
Mountain View, California property received an environmental indemnity from us
similar in scope to the one we received from Raytheon.

                                        9
<PAGE>

     Although we believe that the power device business has no significant
environmental liabilities, Samsung Electronics agreed to indemnify Fairchild for
environmental liabilities arising out of the power device business, including
the Bucheon, South Korean plant, subject to limitations.

     We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with
applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our costs to comply with
environmental regulations were immaterial in Calendar 2001, Calendar 2000, Stub
Year 1999 and Fiscal 1999. Future laws or regulations and changes in existing
environmental laws or regulations, however, may subject our operations to
different, additional or more stringent standards. While historically the cost
of compliance with environmental laws has not had a material adverse effect on
our results of operations, business or financial condition, we cannot predict
with certainty our future costs of compliance because of changing standards and
requirements.

EMPLOYEES

     Our worldwide workforce consisted of 9,798 full and part-time employees as
of December 30, 2001. Of the total number of employees, 8,103 were engaged in
manufacturing, 570 were engaged in marketing and sales, 777 were engaged in
corporate and product line administration and 348 were engaged in research and
development. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.

     At December 30, 2001, 311 of our employees were covered by a collective
bargaining agreement. These employees are members of the Communication Workers
of America/International Union of Electronic, Electrical, Salaried Machine and
Furniture Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 88177. The current agreement with the union
ends December 1, 2002 and provides for guaranteed wage and benefit levels as
well as employment security for union members. A strike or work stoppage could
impact our ability to operate if we were unable to negotiate a new agreement
with our represented employees when the existing agreement expires. Also, our
profitability could be adversely affected if increased costs associated with any
future contracts are not recoverable through productivity improvements or price
increases. We believe that relations with our unionized employees are
satisfactory.

     Our wholly owned Korean subsidiary, which we refer to as Fairchild Korea,
sponsors a Power Device Business Labor Council consisting of seven
representatives from the non-management workforce and seven members of the
management workforce. The Labor Council, under Korean law, is recognized as a
representative of the workforce for the purposes of consultation and
cooperation. The Labor Council has no right to take a work action or to strike
and is not party to any labor or collective bargaining agreements with Fairchild
Korea. We believe that relations with Fairchild Korea employees and the Labor
Council are satisfactory.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF FAIRCHILD INTERNATIONAL

     The following table sets forth information with respect to the executive
officers of our company.

<Table>
<Caption>
NAME                                   AGE                            TITLE
----                                   ---                            -----
<S>                                    <C>   <C>
Kirk P. Pond.........................  57    Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief
                                             Executive Officer
Joseph R. Martin.....................  54    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
                                             and Director
Daniel E. Boxer......................  56    Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative
                                             Officer, General Counsel and Secretary
Keith Jackson........................  46    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Analog,
                                             Mixed Signal, and Configurable Products Group
Hans Wildenberg......................  45    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing
Deok J. Kim..........................  50    Senior Vice President and General Manager, Power Device
                                             Business, President Fairchild Korea Semiconductor Ltd.
W.T. Greer, Jr.......................  60    Senior Vice President and General Manager, Interface
                                             and Logic Products Group
</Table>

                                        10
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
NAME                                   AGE                            TITLE
----                                   ---                            -----
<S>                                    <C>   <C>
Izak Bencuya.........................  47    Senior Vice President and General Manager, Discrete
                                             Products Group
Ernesto J. D'Escoubet................  57    Senior Vice President, Chief Technology and Quality
                                             Officer
John M. Watkins, Jr..................  59    Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer
Laurenz Schmidt......................  52    Senior Vice President, Global Operations
David A. Henry.......................  40    Vice President, Corporate Controller
Matthew W. Towse.....................  39    Vice President, Treasurer
</Table>

     Kirk P. Pond, Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief
Executive Officer.  Mr. Pond has been the President of Fairchild Semiconductor
since June 1996. He has 30 years of experience in the semiconductor industry.
Since 1987, Mr. Pond had held several executive positions with National
Semiconductor, most recently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer. Prior executive management positions were with Fairchild Semiconductor
Corporation, Texas Instruments and Timex Corporation.

     Joseph R. Martin, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Director.  Mr. Martin has been the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Fairchild Semiconductor since June 1996. He has 23 years of
experience in the semiconductor industry. Mr. Martin had held several senior
financial positions with National Semiconductor since 1989, most recently as
Vice President of Finance, Worldwide Operations. Prior to joining National
Semiconductor, Mr. Martin was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of VTC Incorporated.

     Daniel E. Boxer, Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer,
General Counsel and Secretary.  Mr. Boxer joined our company in March 1997. He
has practiced law for 32 years and since 1975 had been a partner at the law firm
of Pierce Atwood, Portland, Maine. His practice at Pierce Atwood included
advising many large manufacturing companies, including our company, on business,
governmental, legal compliance and environmental issues. He was most recently a
senior partner and Chairman of the firm's Management Committee.

     Keith Jackson, Executive Vice President and General Manager, Analog, Mixed
Signal, and Configurable Products Group.  Mr. Jackson joined our company in
March 1998. He has over 20 years of semiconductor industry experience. Most
recently, Mr. Jackson was President of TriTech Microelectronics in Singapore, a
manufacturer of analog and mixed signal products, which he joined in 1996. Prior
to that, he worked for National Semiconductor for 10 years, most recently as
Vice President and General Manager of the Analog and Mixed Signal division. He
has also held various marketing and engineering positions at National
Semiconductor and Texas Instruments.

     Hans Wildenberg, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing.
  Mr. Wildenberg joined our company in July 2001. He has over 20 years of
semiconductor industry experience. Prior to joining our company he had been with
Motorola for sixteen years in various executive and management positions in
Motorola's Semiconductor Product Sector, most recently as Corporate Vice
President and Director of the order fulfillment organization.

     Deok J. Kim, Senior Vice President, President, Fairchild Korea
Semiconductor Ltd.  Mr. Kim became Senior Vice President, President of Fairchild
Korea Semiconductor Ltd. when we acquired the power device business from Samsung
Electronics in April 1999. He has over 26 years of experience in the
semiconductor industry. Mr. Kim joined Samsung Electronics' power device
business in 1990 as director of power product development and later became
managing director and vice president and general manager of the power device
business prior to its acquisition by Fairchild International. Before joining
Samsung Electronics, Mr. Kim held engineering and development positions with
Goldstar Semiconductor, AMI and General Electric.

     W.T. Greer, Jr., Senior Vice President and General Manager, Interface and
Logic Products Group. Mr. Greer has been Senior Vice President and General
Manager, Interface and Logic Products Group since February 2000. Mr. Greer has
over 30 years of engineering and management experience in the semiconductor and
electronics industries. Prior to joining our company in 1997 as Vice President
of Logic Products, he served

                                        11
<PAGE>

for ten years as Vice President and Director of Motorola Semiconductor's
Advanced Technologies Division and Military Products Operation. Prior to that,
he held various management positions at Texas Instruments.

     Izak Bencuya, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Discrete Products
Group.  Mr. Bencuya has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Discrete
Products Group since February 2000. Mr. Bencuya has worked in the semiconductor
and electronics field for 26 years. Prior to his current assignment, Mr. Bencuya
spent six years as Director of Power MOSFET Products. Mr. Bencuya also worked at
GTE Laboratories and Siliconix in various research and management roles.

     Ernesto J. D'Escoubet, Senior Vice President, Chief Technology and Quality
Officer.  Mr. D'Escoubet has been Senior Vice President, Technology and Quality,
since February 2000. Mr. D'Escoubet has over 30 years of experience in the
semiconductor industry. Prior to assuming his current role, Mr. D'Escoubet spent
eight years as Vice President of Operations for the Interface and Logic Products
Group. Prior to that, he held various management positions at National
Semiconductor and Harris Corporation.

     John M. Watkins, Jr., Senior Vice President, Chief Information
Officer.  Mr. Watkins joined our company in March 2000. Prior to joining our
company, Mr. Watkins spent five years as Chief Information Officer of Pratt and
Whitney. In 1995, Mr. Watkins retired as a General after eleven years in the
United States Army. His most recent assignment was as Director of the Defense
Information Systems Agency in Washington, D.C.

     Laurenz Schmidt, Senior Vice President, Global Operations.  Mr. Schmidt has
been Senior Vice President, Global Operations since October 2001. He has over 25
years of experience in the semiconductor industry. Prior to assuming his current
role, he held various management positions over the preceding eight years,
including Vice President of Wafer Fabrication Manufacturing, Vice President of
Operations for Discrete Products Group and Managing Director of the South
Portland, Maine wafer fabrication facility. Prior to joining Fairchild in 1983,
he spent six years with Texas Instruments.

     David A. Henry, Vice President, Corporate Controller.  Mr. Henry has been
Corporate Controller of the Fairchild Semiconductor business since December
1996. Previously, he held various financial management positions with National
Semiconductor, most recently as Director of Financial Planning and Analysis for
its Fairchild Semiconductor business. Mr. Henry previously worked for Amfac,
Inc. as well as Ernst and Whinney.

     Matthew W. Towse, Vice President, Treasurer.  Mr. Towse became Treasurer in
March 1997. He had been with National Semiconductor for six years and held
various financial management positions, most recently as Controller for the
Fairchild Semiconductor plant in South Portland, Maine. Mr. Towse previously
worked for Ernst & Young and is a certified public accountant.

BUSINESS RISKS

     Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risks
described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not
currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our
business operations:

     DOWNTURNS IN THE HIGHLY CYCLICAL SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY OR CHANGES IN END
USER MARKET DEMANDS COULD REDUCE THE VALUE OF OUR BUSINESS.

     The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and the value of our
business may decline during the "down" portion of these cycles. During 1998 and
into 1999, we, as well as many others in our industry, experienced significant
declines in the pricing of our products as customers reduced demand forecasts
and manufacturers reduced prices to keep capacity utilization high. We believe
these trends were due primarily to the Asian financial crisis during that period
and excess personal computer inventories. Beginning in the fourth quarter of
2000 and throughout 2001, we and the rest of the semiconductor industry
experienced backlog cancellations and reduced demand for our products, resulting
in revenue declines, due to excess inventories at computer and communications
equipment manufacturers and general economic conditions, especially in the
technology sector. Although we believe that we reached the bottom of this cycle
during the third quarter of

                                        12
<PAGE>

2001, we may experience renewed, possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns
in the future as a result of such cyclical changes. Even as demand increases
following such downturns, our profitability may not increase because of price
competition that historically accompanies recoveries in demand. In addition, we
may experience significant changes in our profitability as a result of
variations in sales, changes in product mix, changes in end user markets and the
costs associated with the introduction of new products. The markets for our
products depend on continued demand for personal computers, cellular telephones
and consumer electronics and automotive and industrial goods, and these end user
markets may experience changes in demand that will adversely affect our results
and future prospects.

     WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS TO SATISFY CHANGES IN CONSUMER
DEMANDS.

     Our failure to develop new technologies, or react to changes in existing
technologies, could materially delay development of new products, which could
result in decreased revenues and a loss of market share to our competitors.
Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new
product introductions, characterize the semiconductor industry. Our financial
performance depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble,
test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and
cost-effective basis. We may not successfully identify new product opportunities
and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective
manner. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render our
products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in
technologies in our product markets could have a material adverse effect on our
competitive position within our industry.

     OUR FAILURE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS COULD ADVERSELY
AFFECT OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE AND GROWTH.

     Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in
the loss of valuable technologies or having to pay other companies for
infringing on their intellectual property rights. We rely on patent, trade
secret, trademark and copyright law to protect such technologies. Some of our
technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application, and we cannot
assure that:

          - any of the patents owned by us or numerous other patents which third
            parties license to us will not be invalidated, circumvented,
            challenged or licensed to other companies; or that

          - any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued
            within the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all.

     In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret
protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in some foreign
countries.

     We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including
technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality
agreements and, if applicable, inventors' rights agreements with our
collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that
these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for
any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to
intellectual property arising out of such research. Some of our technologies
have been licensed on a non-exclusive basis from National Semiconductor, Samsung
Electronics, Intersil Corporation and other companies which may license such
technologies to others, including, in the case of National Semiconductor
commencing on March 11, 2002, our competitors. In addition, under a technology
licensing and transfer agreement, National Semiconductor has limited
royalty-free, worldwide license rights (without right to sublicense) to some of
our technologies. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents
or intellectual property rights claimed by others. However, we cannot assure you
that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will
be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for
technologies we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to
suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes
requiring the technologies.

                                        13
<PAGE>

     OUR FAILURE TO OBTAIN OR MAINTAIN THE RIGHT TO USE CERTAIN TECHNOLOGIES MAY
NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

     Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability
to obtain or maintain proprietary technologies used in our principal products,
which is achieved in part by defending claims by competitors of intellectual
property infringement. The semiconductor industry is characterized by litigation
regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We have been involved
in lawsuits, could become subject to other lawsuits and receive claims from time
to time in which it is alleged that we have infringed upon the patent or other
intellectual property rights of other companies. Our involvement in existing and
future intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to
our company, adversely affecting sales of the challenged product or technologies
and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or
not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome
as a defendant in any such litigation, we may be required to:

     - pay substantial damages;

     - indemnify our customers for damages they might suffer if the products
       they purchase from us violate the intellectual property rights of others;

     - stop our manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products;

     - expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing
       technologies;

     - discontinue processes; or

     - obtain licenses to the intellectual property we are found to have
       infringed.

     We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such development or
acquisition or that such licenses would be available under reasonable terms. Any
such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of
substantial time and other resources.

     WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONSUMMATE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS OR SUCCESSFULLY
INTEGRATE ACQUISITIONS INTO OUR BUSINESS.

     We have made seven acquisitions since we became an independent company in
1997, and we plan to pursue additional acquisitions of related businesses. We
believe the semiconductor industry is going through a period of consolidation,
and we expect to participate in this development. The expense incurred in
consummating the future acquisition of related businesses, or our failure to
integrate such businesses successfully into our existing businesses, could
result in our company incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition,
we may not be able to identify or finance additional acquisitions or realize any
anticipated benefits from acquisitions we do complete.

     We are constantly pursuing acquisition opportunities and consolidation
possibilities and are in various stages of due diligence or preliminary
discussions with respect to a number of potential transactions, some of which
would be significant. No material potential transactions is subject to a letter
of intent or otherwise so far advanced as to make the transaction reasonably
certain.

     Should we successfully acquire another business, the process of integrating
acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen
operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that
would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of
existing operations. Some of the risks associated with acquisitions include:

     - unexpected losses of key employees, customers or suppliers of the
       acquired company;

     - conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and
       controls with our operations;

     - coordinating new product and process development;

     - hiring additional management and other critical personnel;

     - negotiating with labor unions; and

                                        14
<PAGE>

     - increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our
       operations.

     In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the
integration of other businesses we acquire.

     Possible future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional
debt, contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to goodwill and
other intangible assets, all of which could have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition and operating results.

     PRODUCTION TIME AND THE OVERALL COST OF PRODUCTS COULD INCREASE IF WE WERE
TO LOSE ONE OF OUR PRIMARY SUPPLIERS OR IF A PRIMARY SUPPLIER INCREASED THE
PRICES OF RAW MATERIALS.

     Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw
materials on a timely basis. Our results of operations could be adversely
affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a
timely manner or if the costs of raw materials increased significantly. We
purchase raw materials such as silicon wafers, lead frames, mold compound,
ceramic packages and chemicals and gases from a limited number of suppliers on a
just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit
supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In
addition, we subcontract a portion of our wafer fabrication and assembly and
test operations to other manufacturers, including Carsem, Amkor, NS Electronics
(Bangkok) Ltd., Samsung Electronics, Korea Micro Industry and ChipPAC. Our
operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely
affected if our relationships with these subcontractors were disrupted or
terminated.

     DELAYS IN BEGINNING PRODUCTION AT NEW FACILITIES, EXPANDING CAPACITY AT
EXISTING FACILITIES, IMPLEMENTING NEW PRODUCTION TECHNIQUES, OR IN CURING
PROBLEMS ASSOCIATED WITH TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTIONS, ALL COULD ADVERSELY
AFFECT OUR MANUFACTURING EFFICIENCIES.

     Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in our profitability,
and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing
efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our
competitors. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced
and costly equipment and are continuously being modified in an effort to improve
yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the
manufacturing process can lower yields.

     In addition, we are currently engaged in an effort to expand capacity at
some of our manufacturing facilities. As is common in the semiconductor
industry, we have from time to time experienced difficulty in beginning
production at new facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing
processes. As a consequence, we have suffered delays in product deliveries or
reduced yields. We may experience delays or problems in bringing planned new
manufacturing capacity to full production. We may also experience problems in
achieving acceptable yields, or experience product delivery delays in the future
with respect to existing or planned new capacity as a result of, among other
things, capacity constraints, construction delays, upgrading or expanding
existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could
result in a loss of future revenues. Our operating results could also be
adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related
to increases in production capacity if revenues do not increase proportionately.

     A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR SALES ARE MADE TO DISTRIBUTORS WHO CAN
TERMINATE THEIR RELATIONSHIPS WITH US WITH LITTLE OR NO NOTICE. THE TERMINATION
OF A DISTRIBUTOR COULD REDUCE SALES AND RESULT IN INVENTORY RETURNS.

     Distributors accounted for 56.5% of our net trade sales for the year ended
December 30, 2001. Our five domestic distributors accounted for 7.6% of our net
trade sales for the year ended December 30, 2001. As a general rule, we do not
have long-term agreements with our distributors and they may terminate their
relationships with us with little or no advance notice. Distributors generally
offer competing products. The loss of one or more of our distributors, or the
decision by one or more of them to reduce the number of our products they offer
or to carry the product lines of our competitors, could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The
termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's
initiative, or a disruption in the operations of one or more of our
distributors, could reduce our net sales in a given quarter and could result in
an increase in inventory returns.

                                        15
<PAGE>

     THE SEMICONDUCTOR BUSINESS IS VERY COMPETITIVE AND INCREASED COMPETITION
COULD REDUCE THE VALUE OF AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMPANY.

     The semiconductor industry is, and the multi-market semiconductor product
markets in particular are, highly competitive. Competition is based on price,
delivery terms, product performance, quality, reliability and customer service.
In addition, even in strong markets, price pressures may emerge as competitors
attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices. Competition in the
various markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes,
many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we
have and thus are better able to pursue acquisition candidates and can better
withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not
currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the
future.

     OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS SUBJECT OUR COMPANY TO RISKS NOT FACED BY
DOMESTIC COMPETITORS.

     Through our subsidiaries we maintain significant operations in the
Philippines, Malaysia and South Korea and also operate facilities in China and
Singapore. We also have sales offices and customers around the world. The
following are risks inherent in doing business on an international level:

     - economic and political instability;

     - foreign currency fluctuations;

     - transportation delays;

     - trade restrictions;

     - work stoppages; and

     - the laws, including tax laws of, and the policies of the United States
       toward, countries in which we manufacture our products.

     THE POWER DEVICE BUSINESS SUBJECTS OUR COMPANY TO RISKS INHERENT IN DOING
BUSINESS IN KOREA, INCLUDING LABOR RISK, POLITICAL RISK AND CURRENCY RISK.

     As a result of the acquisition of the power device business in 1999, we
have significant operations in South Korea and are subject to risks associated
with doing business in that country.

     In addition to other risks disclosed relating to international operations,
some businesses in South Korea are subject to labor unrest. Also, relations
between South Korea and North Korea have been tense over most of South Korea's
history. We cannot assure you as to whether or when this situation will be
resolved or change abruptly as a result of current or future events. An adverse
change in economic or political conditions in South Korea or in its or the
United States' relations with North Korea could have a material adverse effect
on our Korean subsidiary and our company.

     The power device business' sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars
while a significant portion of its costs of goods sold and its operating
expenses are denominated in South Korean won. Although we have taken steps to
fix the costs subject to currency fluctuations and to balance won revenues and
won costs, a significant change in this balance, coupled with a significant
change in the value of the won relative to the dollar, could have a material
adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations. In
addition, an unfavorable change in the value of the won could require us to
write down our won-denominated assets.

     WE ENTERED INTO A NUMBER OF LONG-TERM SUPPLY AND SUPPORT CONTRACTS WITH
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS IN CONNECTION WITH OUR ACQUISITION OF ITS POWER DEVICE
BUSINESS IN 1999. ANY DECREASE IN THE PURCHASE REQUIREMENTS OF SAMSUNG
ELECTRONICS OR ITS INABILITY TO MEET ITS CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS COULD
SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.

     As a result of the acquisition of Samsung Electronics' power device
business in 1999, we have numerous arrangements with Samsung Electronics,
including arrangements relating to product sales, designation as a vendor to
affiliated Samsung companies and other services. The terms of these agreements
terminate beginning in April 2002. Any material adverse change in the purchase
requirements of Samsung Electronics,

                                        16
<PAGE>

in its ability to supply the agreed-upon services or in its ability to fulfill
its other obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations. Although historically the power device business generated
significant revenues from the sale of products to affiliated Samsung companies,
we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell products to affiliated Samsung
companies or that the designation of the power device business as a vendor to
those affiliated Samsung companies will generate any revenues for our company.
Furthermore, under the Korean Fair Trade Law, the Fair Trade Commission may
issue an order requiring a change in the terms and conditions of the agreements
between us and Samsung Electronics if it concludes that Samsung Electronics has
provided us with undue support or discriminated against our competitors.

     A CHANGE IN FOREIGN TAX LAWS OR A DIFFERENCE IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF CURRENT
FOREIGN TAX LAWS BY RELEVANT FOREIGN AUTHORITIES COULD RESULT IN US NOT
RECOGNIZING THE BENEFITS WE ANTICIPATED IN CONNECTION WITH THE TRANSACTION
STRUCTURE USED TO CONSUMMATE THE ACQUISITION OF THE POWER DEVICE BUSINESS.

     The transaction structure we used for the acquisition of the power device
business is based on assumptions about the various tax laws, including
withholding tax, and other relevant laws of foreign jurisdictions. In addition,
our Korean subsidiary was granted a ten-year tax holiday under Korean law in
1999. The first seven years are tax-free, followed by three years of income
taxes at 50% of the statutory rate. In 2000, the tax holiday was extended such
that the exemption amounts were increased to 75% in the eighth year and a 25%
exemption was added to the eleventh year. If our assumptions about tax and other
relevant laws are incorrect, or if foreign taxing jurisdictions were to change
or modify the relevant laws, or if our Korean subsidiary were to lose its tax
holiday, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences or lose
the benefits anticipated from the transaction structure we used to acquire that
business.

     WE PLAN TO SIGNIFICANTLY EXPAND OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS IN CHINA AND,
AS A RESULT, WILL BE INCREASINGLY SUBJECT TO RISKS INHERENT IN DOING BUSINESS IN
CHINA, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.

     In 2001 we acquired land in Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, People's Republic of
China and in February 2002 began construction of the first phase of an 800,000
square foot assembly and test facility there. We are hopeful that a significant
portion of our future revenue will result from the Chinese markets in which our
products are sold, and from demand in China for goods that include our products.
We also plan to export products out of China from the new Suzhou facility. In
addition, since 2000 we have operated an optoelectronics manufacturing facility
in Wuxi, China. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by
changes in that country's laws and regulations, including those relating to
taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights,
property and other matters. In addition, our results of operations in China are
subject to the economic and political situation there. We believe that our
operations in China are in compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory
requirements. However, there can be no assurance that China's central or local
governments will not impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of
existing regulations that would require additional expenditures. Changes in the
political environment or government policies could result in revisions to laws
or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, increased taxation,
restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations. In addition, a
significant destabilization of relations between China and the United States
could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our operations or the sale of
our products in China. The legal system of China relating to foreign trade is
relatively new and continues to evolve. There can be no certainty as to the
application of its laws and regulations in particular instances. Enforcement of
existing laws or agreements may be sporadic and implementation and
interpretation of laws inconsistent. Moreover, there is a high degree of
fragmentation among regulatory authorities resulting in uncertainties as to
which authorities have jurisdiction over particular parties or transactions.

     WE ARE SUBJECT TO MANY ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS THAT COULD AFFECT
OUR OPERATIONS OR RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES.

     Increasingly stringent environmental regulations restrict the amount and
types of pollutants that can be released from our operations into the
environment. While historically the cost of compliance with environmental laws
has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, compliance
with these and any future regulations could require significant capital
investments in pollution control equipment or changes in
                                        17
<PAGE>

the way we make our products. In addition, because we use hazardous and other
regulated materials in our manufacturing processes, we are subject to risks of
liabilities and claims, regardless of fault, resulting from accidental releases,
including personal injury claims and civil and criminal fines, any of which
could be material to our cash flow or earnings. For example:

     - we currently are remediating contamination at some of our operating plant
       sites;

     - we have been identified as a potentially responsible party at a number of
       superfund sites where we (or our predecessors) disposed of wastes in the
       past; and

     - significant regulatory and public attention on the impact of
       semiconductor operations on the environment may result in more stringent
       regulations, further increasing our costs.

     Although most of our known environmental liabilities are covered by
indemnities from Raytheon Company, National Semiconductor, Samsung Electronics
and Intersil, these indemnities are limited to conditions that occurred prior to
the consummation of transactions with those companies. Moreover, we cannot
assure you that their indemnity obligations to us for the covered liabilities
will be adequate to protect us.

     WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT OR RETAIN THE TECHNICAL OR MANAGEMENT
EMPLOYEES NECESSARY TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE IN OUR INDUSTRY.

     Our continued success depends on the retention and recruitment of skilled
personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel. In
the semiconductor industry, the competition for qualified personnel,
particularly experienced design engineers and other technical employees, is
intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current
personnel or recruit the key personnel we require. In addition, we do not have
employment agreements with most members of our senior management team.

     A SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER OF SHARES OF OUR COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK ARE OWNED BY A
LIMITED NUMBER OF PERSONS, AND THEIR INTERESTS MAY CONFLICT WITH YOUR INTERESTS.

     As of December 30, 2001 affiliates of Citigroup Inc. owned approximately
25.3% and our directors and executive officers together owned approximately 4.0%
of our outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock. By virtue of such stock
ownership, such persons have the power to significantly influence our affairs
and are able to influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to
stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and the amendment
of our corporate charter and bylaws. Such persons may exercise their influence
over us in a manner detriment to the interests of our stockholders or
bondholders.

     WE ARE A LEVERAGED COMPANY WITH A DEBT TO EQUITY RATIO OF 1.4 TO 1, WHICH
COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL HEALTH AND LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO GROW AND
COMPETE.

     At December 30, 2001, we had total long-term debt of $1,138.6 million and a
ratio of debt to equity of 1.4 to 1.

     Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For
example, it could:

     - require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from
       operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the
       availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital
       expenditures, research and development efforts and other general
       corporate purposes;

     - increase the amount of our interest expense, because certain of our
       borrowings (namely borrowings under our senior credit facility, which was
       undrawn as of December 30, 2001 and is currently undrawn) are at variable
       rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in
       higher interest expense;

     - increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry
       conditions;

     - limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our
       business and the industry in which we operate;

                                        18
<PAGE>

     - restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new
       technologies or exploiting business opportunities;

     - make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to
       the instruments governing our indebtedness;

     - place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that
       have less indebtedness; and

     - limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our
       debt instruments, among other things, our ability to borrow additional
       funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends. Failing to comply with
       those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured
       or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
       financial condition and results of operations.

     DESPITE CURRENT INDEBTEDNESS LEVELS, WE MAY STILL BE ABLE TO INCUR
SUBSTANTIALLY MORE INDEBTEDNESS. INCURRING MORE INDEBTEDNESS COULD EXACERBATE
THE RISKS DESCRIBED ABOVE.

     We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future.
The indenture governing our outstanding 5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes
Due 2008 does not limit the amount of additional debt that we may incur.
Although the terms of the indentures governing our outstanding 10 1/8% Senior
Subordinated Notes, our outstanding 10 3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes, our
outstanding 10 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes and the credit agreement relating
to the senior credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of
additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of
qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, additional
indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be
substantial. The senior credit facility permits borrowings of up to $300.0
million. As of December 30, 2001, excluding standby letters of credit, we had
$299.2 million available under this revolving credit facility. If new debt is
added to our current debt levels, the substantial risks described above would
intensify.

     WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE THE NECESSARY AMOUNT OF CASH TO SERVICE OUR
INDEBTEDNESS, WHICH MAY REQUIRE US TO REFINANCE OUR INDEBTEDNESS OR DEFAULT ON
OUR SCHEDULED DEBT PAYMENTS. OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE CASH DEPENDS ON MANY
FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL.

     Our historical financial results have been, and our future financial
results are anticipated to be, subject to substantial fluctuations. We cannot
assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations,
that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be
realized on schedule or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to
us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay
our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, because our
senior credit facility has variable interest rates, the cost of those borrowings
will increase if market interest rates increase. If we are unable to meet our
expenses and debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our
indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity. We cannot
assure you that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell
assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could
cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity.

     RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED BY THE CREDIT AGREEMENT RELATING TO OUR SENIOR CREDIT
FACILITY, THE INDENTURES GOVERNING OUR 10 1/8% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES, OUR
10 3/8% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES, AND OUR 10 1/2% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES
RESTRICT OR PROHIBIT OUR ABILITY TO ENGAGE IN OR ENTER INTO SOME BUSINESS
OPERATING AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF POTENTIALLY PROFITABLE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES.

     The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in most of our debt
instruments, such as the credit agreement relating to our senior credit
facility, the indenture governing our 10 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes, the
indenture governing our 10 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes and the indenture
governing our 10 3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes may limit our ability to finance
our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities
that may be in our interests. These debt instruments impose significant
operating and financial restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur
additional indebtedness or create liens on our assets, pay dividends, sell
assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions, make investments or engage in other
business activities. These restrictions could place us at a disadvantage
relative to competitors not subject to such limitations.

                                        19
<PAGE>

     In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility
contains other and more restrictive covenants and limits us from prepaying our
other indebtedness. The senior credit facility also requires us to maintain
specified financial ratios. These financial ratios become more restrictive over
the life of the senior credit facility. Our ability to meet those financial
ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you
that we will meet those ratios. Provided there are no outstanding balances under
our senior credit facility, compliance with these covenants in the credit
agreement is not required until March 31, 2003. After that date, or earlier if
we borrow money under the credit facility, a breach of any of these covenants,
ratios or restrictions could result in an event of default under the senior
credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior
credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding
under the senior credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be
immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the
lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the
indebtedness. If the lenders under the senior credit facility accelerate the
payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets would be
sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness.
