ITEM 1. BUSINESS 


        We design, develop, manufacture and market a broad range of high-performance semiconductor products. Applications for our products include: data networking and telecommunications equipment, such as routers, hubs, switches, cellular base stations and other devices; storage area networks (SANs); other networked peripherals and servers; and personal computers. 

        We market our products on a worldwide basis primarily to OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) through a variety of channels, including a direct sales force, distributors, CEMs (contract electronic manufacturers), and independent sales representatives. 

        We seek to differentiate our products from competitors' offerings through advanced architectures and features designed to enhance the performance of our customers' systems, accelerate their product development cycles, and reduce their system costs. We fabricate substantially all of our semiconductor wafers using advanced complementary metal oxide silicon (CMOS) process technology in our own fabrication facility in Oregon. We assemble or package the majority of our products in manufacturing facilities that we own in Malaysia and the Philippines, where we also conduct product test operations. 

        In fiscal 2003, we acquired Solidum Systems Corp. (Solidum), a privately held provider of classification and content inspection processing solutions. In fiscal 2002, we acquired Newave Semiconductor Corp. (Newave), a privately held designer and marketer of integrated circuits for the telecommunications markets. In fiscal 2000, we acquired Quality Semiconductor, Inc. (QSI), which had been engaged in the design, development and marketing of high-performance logic, timing, and networking semiconductor products. 

        IDT was incorporated in California in 1980 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1987. The terms "the Company," "IDT," "our," "us" and "we" refer to Integrated Device Technology, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

PRODUCTS AND MARKETS 

        We provide a broad portfolio of communications-oriented integrated circuits (ICs), including ICs focused on accelerating intelligent packet processing in next-generation network equipment. IDT serves equipment vendors by applying its advanced hardware, software and memory technologies to create 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


flexible, highly integrated products that enhance the functionality and processing of network services.    We offer approximately 1,300 devices in over 15,000 product configurations. 

        IDT products serve the following market areas: 

•
Enterprise and carrier-class infrastructures (routers, switches, multi-service access switches, load balancers, and virtual private networks) 


•
Wireless infrastructure (GSM and GPRS base stations, third generation or "3G" base stations, and radio network controllers) 


•
Access networks (VoIP gateways that enable voice transmission over the Internet; DSLAMs that facilitate broadband data transmission over traditional voice networks; customer premises equipment (CPE); and integrated access devices, or IADs) 


•
Storage area networks (SANs) 
        We operate in two business segments: 

•
Communications and High-Performance Logic 


•
SRAMs 
        The Communications and High-Performance Logic segment includes network search engines, content inspection engines, integrated communications processors, FIFOs, multi-ports, telecommunications products, clock management products and high-performance logic. The SRAMs segment is comprised of high-speed SRAMs (static random access memories). 

        During fiscal 2003, the Communications and High-Performance Logic and SRAMs segments accounted for approximately 85% and 15%, respectively, of total IDT revenues of $343.9 million. These two segments represented 82% and 18%, respectively, of our total revenues of $379.8 million in fiscal 2002. 

Communications and High-Performance Logic Segment 

        This segment includes network search engines, content inspection engines, integrated communications processors, FIFOs, multi-ports, telecommunications products, clock management products and logic products. 

        Network Search Engines (NSEs):    We developed a family of network search engines based on the integration of content addressable memory (CAM) and high-performance logic. The IDT NSEs support network processing units (NPUs) and ASICs to accelerate packet classification and forwarding in core, metro and access networks. The IDT NSE portfolio includes custom versions for Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), as well as a family of pin- and software-compatible devices (32Kx72 through 256Kx72 configurations) with general-purpose interfaces, and a family of network search engines with glue-less interfaces to network processors from the leading NPU vendors, Intel and Applied Micro Circuits (AMCC). In addition to offering the industry's broadest NSE portfolio, IDT delivers a comprehensive suite of hardware and software tools, including development boards, system-level architecture models, bus and power measurement tools, and a suite of application library code, data plane macros and IMS software. 

        Content Inspection Engines:    IDT offers a complete family of fully programmable, forward compatible content inspection engines that offload the classification function from system processors. Utilizing the Company's proprietary programmable state machine technology that can be programmed to closely inspect packets for vital information at wire speed, these engines are designed for content inspection, classification and regular expression matching in next-generation network architectures. The IDT content inspection engine portfolio includes devices optimized for Layer-7 content inspection and 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


regular expression matching at OC-12 (PAX.port™ 1200 content inspection engine) and OC-48 (PAX.port 2500 content inspection engine) line rates. 

        Integrated Communications Processors:    The IDT Interprise™ family of integrated communications processors, based on the popular MIPS® instruction set architecture (ISA), includes a range of devices optimized for communication market segments such as enterprise and residential gateways, desktop/workgroup switches and wireless access points. The IDT Interprise™ family provides a range of security solutions for the residential, SOHO and SME gateways, through its hardware-enabled, security-acceleration engine, and through partnerships with leading vendors of security-specific software and security co-processors. The IDT portfolio includes the RC32365, RC32355 and RC32351 processors in the Interprise™ Access family and the RC32438, RC32334, RC32333 and RC32332 devices within the Interprise™ PCI family. In addition to the Interprise™ family of integrated communications processors, IDT offers a range of software tools that reduce development time and partners with other industry leaders to provide comprehensive solutions for embedded applications. 

        FIFOs:    We develop products and technologies to help designers solve inter-chip communications problems such as rate matching, data buffering, bus matching and data priority managing. We provide an extensive product portfolio with more than 350 synchronous, asynchronous and bi-directional FIFO offerings. Our families of 9-bit, 18-bit, 36-bit and 72-bit-wide FIFOs are used in many networking and telecommunications system designs. 

        Multi-ports:    Our multi-port portfolio consists of the most comprehensive suite of products available, including more than 150 types of asynchronous and synchronous dual-ports, FourPorts and bank-switchable dual-ports. Aimed at the communications market, the IDT multi-port products are found in many applications, including switches, routers, hubs, cellular base stations, fiber channel line cards and RAID controllers. 

        Telecom Products:    IDT offers a comprehensive portfolio of telecom products for wireline access and edge transport applications, including multi-service aggregators and provisioning platforms, wireless base stations, enterprise routers and media gateways. The IDT telecom family includes products in the access and transport, switching and voice processing areas. These products are designed to support new classes of multi-service equipment and accelerate the convergence of voice and data networks. 

        Clock Management Products:    We also supply high-performance clock management solutions targeting datacom and telecom applications. The IDT clock management portfolio addresses communications systems' stringent requirements, including high frequency and low jitter clock synthesis and distribution. IDT offers a broad range of clock management products that focus on providing clock distribution, clock skewing and clock generation for high-performance communications customers. The IDT clock management products consist of programmable skew PLLs, Zero-Delay PLLs, clock generators and clock fanout buffers. 

        Logic Products.    IDT develops easy-to-use, high-performance digital logic and bus switch products that solve bus interfacing and high-speed I/O problems. The IDT LVC/ALVC and FCT digital logic families are targeted for high-performance communications and computing systems. These products enhance system performance, lower development risk and improve time to market for designers. 

SRAMs Segment 

        We develop SRAM products and technologies that align with our communications product portfolio and extend our core competencies. We support both synchronous and traditional asynchronous SRAM and PBSRAM technologies. 

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Sales Channels 

        We use a variety of sales channels, including a direct sales force, distributors, CEMs, and independent sales representatives. A significant percentage of our sales, including sales to Cisco and other large OEM customers, are through CEMs and distributors. One distributor, Avnet, represented 13%, 16% and 14% of our revenues for fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. One CEM, Celestica, represented approximately 15% of our revenues in fiscal 2003. Another CEM, Solectron, represented 11% of our revenues in fiscal 2001. No CEM accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in fiscal 2002. 

        We employ a direct sales force that operates out of field sales offices located in the United States and abroad. We also utilize three primary distributors, Avnet, Arrow Electronics and Insight Electronics, for sales in the United States, Europe and Asia Pacific. A significant percentage of our export sales are also made through global and regional distributors and CEMs in Europe, Asia Pacific and Japan. 

        During fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, sales outside of the Americas represented approximately 63%, 52% and 42%, respectively, of our total revenues. 

Customers 

        We market and sell our products on a worldwide basis primarily to OEMs in our two business segments. Products in the Communications and High-Performance Logic segment are sold primarily to communications customers. Although products in the SRAMs segment are general purpose in nature, we also supply the majority of our products in this segment to our communications customers. Customers often purchase products from more than one of our product families. No OEM direct customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002 or 2001. However, when sales through all channels are considered, we estimate that end-customer sales to Cisco represented between 20-25% of our fiscal 2003 revenues. 

Manufacturing 

        We believe that our internal wafer fabrication capability facilitates the implementation of advanced process technologies, particularly processes that optimize the integration of logic and memory within single silicon chips. We operate a wafer fabrication facility in Hillsboro, Oregon. The 245,000 square foot facility generates the silicon that supports over 90% of our revenues and contains a 70,000 square foot, eight-inch wafer fabrication line. 

        We utilize proprietary CMOS silicon process technology permitting sub-micron geometries in our wafer fabrication facilities. The majority of our silicon production occurs using our internally-developed 0.35-, 0.25-, 0.18- and 0.15-micron processes. We continue to develop advanced processes down to geometries as fine as 0.12-micron. 

        In fiscal 2002, we announced plans to phase out production at our wafer fabrication facility located in Salinas, California. The decision to consolidate production at our Hillsboro facility was consistent with the continuing evolution of our manufacturing technologies toward more advanced, smaller-geometry technologies, but it was accelerated by poor industry business conditions during fiscal 2002.    We phased out production at the Salinas facility and completed the transfer of production to our Hillsboro plant in the first quarter of fiscal 2003, although product engineering, marketing and support operations continue to be based at the Salinas site. 

        We supplement our internal wafer fabrication capacity through relationships with subcontract wafer manufacturers, or foundries. We expect the percentage of our total wafer fabrication requirements provided by external foundries to increase in the future. 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        We operate two component assembly and test facilities, a 145,000 square-foot facility in Penang, Malaysia and a 176,000 square-foot facility near Manila, the Philippines. Substantially all of our test operations and a majority of our assembly operations are performed at these two facilities. We also use subcontractors, principally in the Philippines and Korea, to perform certain assembly operations. In addition, we have limited test capabilities in Santa Clara and Salinas. 

Backlog 

        Our backlog (which we define as all confirmed, unshipped orders) as of March 30, 2003 was approximately $42.7 million, compared to $49.4 million as of March 31, 2002. We offer products with limited or no second sources, as well as industry-standard products. Sales are generally made pursuant to purchase orders, which are frequently revised by customers as their requirements change. We have also entered into master purchase agreements, which do not require minimum purchase quantities, with many of our OEM and CEM customers. We schedule product deliveries on receipt of purchase orders under the related customer agreements. Generally, these purchase orders and customer agreements, especially those for standard products, also allow customers to reschedule delivery dates and cancel purchase orders without significant penalties. In general, orders, especially for industry standard products, are often made with very short lead times and may be canceled, rescheduled, repriced or otherwise revised. In addition, distributor orders are subject to price adjustments both before and after shipment. Finally, orders placed by distributors or by consignment customers may reflect those customers' intent to adjust their inventory levels, rather than providing an indication of near-term revenue opportunities. Approximately 50% of our revenues currently occur through distribution and consignment customers, and, with few exceptions, we recognize revenues not upon shipment to fulfill their orders, but upon their selling through the product to the ultimate end customer. For all these reasons, we do not believe that our order backlog is a reliable indicator of future revenues. 

Research and Development 

        Our research and development efforts emphasize the development of proprietary and enhanced-performance products, industry standard products and advanced CMOS processes. We believe that a continued high level of investment in research and development is necessary to maintain our competitive position. We operate research and development centers in Santa Clara, California; Hillsboro, Oregon; Atlanta, Georgia; Warren, N.J.; Ottawa, Canada; Shanghai, China and Sydney, Australia. Research and development expenses, as a percentage of revenues, were approximately 38%, 34%, and 13% in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 

        Our product development activities are focused on the design of integrated circuits that provide new features and enhanced performance primarily for growing communications markets applications. Additionally, we are developing advanced manufacturing process technologies, including 0.12-micron semiconductor fabrication techniques. These process technologies are designed to enable cost and performance advantages and to support higher production volumes of integrated circuits and the continued growth of our communications products. 

Competition 

        Intensely competitive, the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, cyclical market patterns, price erosion, evolving industry standards, occasional shortages of materials, intellectual property disputes, high capital equipment costs and uncertain availability of and control over manufacturing capacity. Many of our competitors have substantially greater technical, marketing, manufacturing and financial resources than we do. In addition, several foreign competitors receive financial assistance from their governments, which could give them a competitive advantage. We compete in different product areas, to varying degrees, on the basis of technical innovation and product 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


performance, as well as product quality, availability and price. Products in the SRAMs segment can generally be characterized as commodity-type items and tend to be most price sensitive. 

        Our competitive strategy is to differentiate our products through high performance, innovative configurations, proprietary features and breadth of offerings. Price competition, introductions of new products by our competitors, delays in our own product introductions or other competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in the future. 

        Our Communications and High-Performance Logic products compete with similar products offered by such companies as Cypress Semiconductor (Cypress), PMC-Sierra (PMC), Toshiba, NEC, Texas Instruments, Pericom Semiconductor, Infineon Technologies, NetLogic, Legerity, Agere Systems, Zarlink Semiconductor, Exar, Intel, Motorola, Integrated Circuit Systems and Maxim Integrated Products. 

        In markets where we compete to sell SRAM products, market supply and pricing strategies of competitors significantly impact the price we receive for our products. Our competitors include U.S.-based companies such as Cypress and Integrated Silicon Solutions. International competitors include Samsung Electronics and various other companies based in Taiwan, Korea and elsewhere in Asia. 

Intellectual Property and Licensing 

        We believe that our intellectual property is a valuable corporate asset, and we continue to invest in intellectual property protection. We also intend to continue our efforts to increase the breadth of our patent portfolio. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us or that our efforts generally to protect our intellectual property rights will be successful. 

        In recent years, there has been a growing trend of companies resorting to litigation to protect their semiconductor technology from unauthorized use by others. In the past, we have been involved in patent litigation which adversely affected our operating results. Although we have obtained patent licenses from certain semiconductor manufacturers, we do not have licenses from a number of semiconductor manufacturers with broad patent portfolios. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain necessary intellectual property rights and protect our intellectual property rights. While we have filed patent applications, we cannot be certain that these applications will issue into patents, that we will be able to obtain the necessary intellectual property rights or that other parties will not contest our intellectual property rights. 

Environmental Regulation 

        Various federal, state and local provisions regulate the use and discharge of certain hazardous materials used in semiconductor manufacturing. Failure to comply with environmental regulations in the future could subject us to substantial liability or cause our manufacturing operations to be interrupted. These regulations could also require us to procure costly equipment or incur significant remediation expenses. 

Employees 

        As of March 30, 2003, we employed approximately 3,100 people worldwide, including 900 and 800 in Malaysia and the Philippines, respectively. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly engineers, who are often in great demand. We have implemented policies enabling our employees to share in our success, including stock option, stock purchase and profit sharing programs, and bonus plans for key contributors. We have never had a work stoppage. None of our employees is currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our employee relations to be good. 

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Available Information 

        We file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the SEC electronically. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC on our website on the World Wide Web at http://www.idt.com, by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices by calling (408) 654-6420 or by sending an e-mail message to ir@idt.com. 
