Item 1. Business 

 

General 

 

We are a global designer and manufacturer of high performance analog integrated circuits (“ICs”). We believe our product portfolio addresses some of the fastest growing applications in four attractive end markets: high-end consumer, computing, communications and industrial. 

 

Glossary of Technical Terms 

 

We have included the following definitions of technical terms to aid the reader: 

 

48-volt telecom: 48-volt telecom servers convert battery power, which is used by telephone switching equipment, into lower voltages, such as 1.5 volt, required by digital logic integrated circuits such as microprocessors. 

 

ACPI: ACPI (Advanced configuration power interface) is the computing industry specification for the efficient handling of power consumption in desktop and mobile computers. ACPI specifies how a computer’s basic input/output system, operating system and peripheral devices communicate with each other. “Sleep states” like “suspend” or “hibernate” are controlled by devices following the ACPI standard. 

 

ADSL: ADSL (Asymmetric digital subscriber line) is a technology for the transmission of digital information at a high bandwidth on existing phone lines to homes and businesses. Unlike regular dial-up phone service, ADSL provides continuously-available, “always on” digital connection. ADSL is asymmetric in that it uses most of the channel to transmit downstream to the user and only a small part to receive information from the user. ADSL can be used simultaneously with standard analog (voice) information on the same line. ADSL is generally offered at downstream data rates from 512 kilobits per second (Kbps) to about 6 megabits per second (Mbps) although speeds of up to 50 Mbps have been achieved. 

 

DDR: DDR (Double data rate) is synchronous dynamic Random Access Memory (RAM) that can theoretically improve memory clock speed to at least 200 megahertz (MHz), enhancing the performance of a personal computer. It activates output on both the rising and falling edge of the system clock rather than just on the rising edge, potentially doubling the output for each clock cycle. 

 

HDSL: HDSL (High bit-rate digital subscriber line), one of the earliest forms of DSL, is used for wideband digital transmission within a corporate site and between the telephone company and a customer. The main characteristic of HDSL is that it is symmetrical: an equal amount of bandwidth is available in both directions. HDSL can carry as much on a single wire of twisted-pair cable as a T1 line (up to 1.544 Mbps) in North America or an E1 line (up to 2.048 Mbps) in Europe over a somewhat longer range and is considered an alternative to a T1 or E1 connections. 

 

Laser diode drivers: A laser diode driver is an integrated circuit design to drive a laser diode. A laser diode is a semiconductor device that produces coherent radiation (in which the waves are all at the same frequency and phase) in the visible or infrared (IR) spectrum when current passes through it. Such devices are used in all writeable optical storage devices to write to the storage media (e.g., CD-Rs or DVD-Rs). 

 

Operational amplifier: The term operational amplifier or “op-amp” refers to a class of integrated circuit with two inputs, one output and a high-gain. This device is very flexible and is used in signal amplification and conditioning applications. 

 

TFT-LCD: A display screen made with TFT (thin-film transistor) technology is a liquid crystal display (LCD), used in phones, televisions, notebook and laptop computers, that has a transistor for each pixel (that is, for each of the tiny elements that control the illumination of the display). Having a transistor at each pixel means that the current that triggers pixel illumination can be smaller than with other technologies and therefore can be switched on and off more quickly. TFT is also known as active matrix display technology (and contrasts with “passive matrix” which does not have a transistor at each pixel). 

 

VDSL: VDSL (Very high bit rate digital subscriber line) is a higher speed version of ADSL. VDSL operates at data rates up to 70 to 80 Mbps, with its corresponding maximum reach ranging from 4500 feet to 1000 feet of 24 gauge twisted-pair cable. 

 

VOIP: VOIP (Voice over Internet protocol) uses the Internet Protocol (IP) to transmit voice as packets over an IP network. 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Our Business Strategy 

 

Our business strategy emphasizes the following key elements: 

 

  • Focus on High Growth Markets. We focus our investments on markets with the potential for high growth. We believe that the demand for ICs in our focused markets will be higher than that in the overall semiconductor industry.  

 

  • Maintain Technology Leadership. We have 397 employees working on innovative solutions for analog architectures. In conjunction with these efforts, we continue to expand our strong intellectual property position by seeking to increase our existing portfolio of over 1,050 patents.  

 

  • Partner with Industry Leaders. We partner with industry leaders in each of our target end-user markets to deliver advanced technology for rapidly emerging applications. Our customer base of industry leaders illustrates the acceptance of our products to date, and we continue to partner with these customers and others to develop and market our next generation products. Our applications and design engineers support our customers’ end product development.  

 

  • Maintain High Quality Customer Service. Quality customer service is critical to our customer retention and sales growth. Through our customer relations initiatives, we believe we distinguish ourselves from our competitors. Additionally, our sales force and authorized representatives and distributors provide customer information programs and support for our global comprehensive customer service efforts.  

 

History 

 

We were formed on August 13, 1999 through a series of transactions, in which we and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Intersil Communications, Inc. (“Intersil Communications”), acquired the semiconductor business of Harris Corporation (“Harris”). On March 16, 2001, we sold the assets of our Discrete Power products group to Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation (“Fairchild”) for $338.0 million in cash and the assumption by Fairchild of certain liabilities of the product group. On May 14, 2002, we consummated a merger with Elantec Semiconductor, Inc. (“Elantec”). On August 28, 2003, we sold the assets of our Wireless Networking products group to GlobespanVirata, Inc. (“GlobespanVirata”) for $250.0 million in cash and $114.4 million in GlobespanVirata common stock. Additionally, we kept the product group’s accounts receivable and accounts payable balances that existed at the time of sale. 

 

Products and Technology 

 

Our ongoing products are organized into four end market categories. 

 

High End Consumer 

 

Our high-end consumer products include our optical storage and video display products, our handheld power management products, and certain standard analog drivers. These products target high growth applications such as DVD recorders for the home market, liquid crystal display (“LCD”) televisions, smart phones and digital still cameras. High-end consumer represented 16% of our fiscal year 2003 revenue. 

 

Computing 

 

Our computing category includes desktop, server and notebook power management, including core power devices and other peripheral applications, such as graphics, ACPI control and DDR memory. Computing represented 32% of our sales in fiscal year 2003. 

 

Communication 

 

Our communications group is made up of our line drivers, broadband and hot plug power management products and high speed converters targeted to applications in markets such as DSL, home gateway, space and VOIP. Communications accounted for 24% of our sales in fiscal year 2003. 

 

Industrial 

 

Our industrial products include our Elantec family of operational amplifiers, bridge driver power management products, interface and analog switches and multiplexers, and other standard analog products. These products target end markets including medical imaging, energy management and factory automation. Industrial products represented 28% of fiscal year 2003 sales. 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Geographic Financial Summary 

 

We operate exclusively in the semiconductor industry. Substantially all revenues were the result of sales from semiconductor products. A summary of the operations by geographic area is summarized below ($ in thousands): 

 

         
     Year Ended

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     December 28,
2001

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    January 3,
2003

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    January 2,
2004

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
United States Operations
                    
Net sales
    $ 152,533    130,367    $ 126,411 
Tangible long-lived assets
      124,393    141,905      150,616 
    
International Operations
                    
Net sales
      246,009    289,192      381,273 
Tangible long-lived assets
      1,060    2,032      2,794 

 

We market our products for sale to customers, including distributors, primarily in the United States, China, Taiwan, Japan, Germany, Singapore, Korea, Thailand, Malaysia and the United Kingdom. Of our sales from continuing operations in fiscal year 2003, 25% were made to customers in the United States, 24% to customers in China, 13% to customers in Taiwan and 12% to customers in Japan. Customers in each of Germany, Singapore, Korea, Thailand, Malaysia and the United Kingdom accounted for at least 1% of our sales. 

 

Export sales included in U.S. operations were $89.2 million, $139.6 million and $146.1 million during fiscal years 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively. 

 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

 

In fiscal year 2003, we derived 71% of our sales from original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers, original design manufacturer (“ODM”) customers, and contract manufacturers. We derived 29% of our sales through distributors and valued added resellers. Of our sales from continuing operations for fiscal year 2003, 12% were made to one distributor that supports a wide range of customers in Taiwan and China. 

 

Our sales organizations are supported by customer service and logistics organizations throughout the world. Product orders flow to our fabrication facilities or to foundries where the semiconductor wafers are made. Most of our semiconductors are assembled and tested at the facilities of independent subcontractors. Finished products are then shipped to customers either directly or indirectly via third parties or internally–owned warehouses in the United States, Asia/Pacific and Europe. 

 

To serve our customer base, we maintain a highly focused sales team, which focuses on those major accounts that are strategic to our marketing and product strategies. We also have direct geographical sales organizations, selling products in regions throughout the world. The geographical sales force works closely with a network of distributors and manufacturers’ representatives, creating a worldwide selling network. We have dedicated direct sales organizations operating in the North American, European, Japanese, and Asian Pacific markets. Sales offices are strategically located near major OEM and ODM customers throughout the world. The technical applications organization is deployed alongside the direct sales force, and is aligned by specific product grouping, ensuring both applications and product/customer focus. Our dedicated marketing organization supports field sales and is aligned by specific product group. 

 

Manufacturers’ representatives generally do not offer products that compete directly with our products, but may offer complementary items manufactured by others. Manufacturers’ representatives do not maintain product inventory; instead, customers place large quantity orders either directly with us or through these Manufacturers’ representatives. Smaller quantity multiple product orders are placed through distribution. 

 

Typically distributors handle a wide variety of products, including products that compete with our products. Some of our sales to distributors are made under agreements allowing for market price fluctuations and/or the right to return some unsold merchandise. Virtually all distribution agreements contain an industry standard stock rotation provision allowing for minimum levels of inventory returns. In our experience, these inventory returns can usually be resold. We recognize revenue shipped to North American distributors when the distributor sells the product. Sales made to international distributors are recognized when product is shipped. 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Research and Development 

 

We believe that the continued introduction of new products in our target markets is essential to our growth. We incurred costs of $91.3 million, $77.9 million and $66.7 million on internal research and development projects for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In 2003, we announced over 300 new products for our target markets. We believe that we must continue to innovate, enhance and expand our products and services to maintain our leadership position, and we intend to achieve this through in-house research and development efforts and acquisitions. As of January 2, 2004, we had 397 employees engaged in research and development efforts. 

 

We also engage in advanced research projects with a number of universities, including the University of Florida, the Georgia Institute of Technology and Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. Technology and research has also been extended through selective investments in privately held emerging companies. 

 

Manufacturing 

 

We manufacture products using our own fabrication facility as well as external foundry companies, which produce products to our specifications. Our internal facility is located in Palm Bay, Florida. 

 

In July 2002, we announced the closing of our factory located in Milpitas, California. This activity was successfully completed, on schedule, in November 2003. We also successfully completed the transfer of our operational amplifier/DSL production process to our Palm Bay facility. 

 

Our Palm Bay, Florida facility features 6 inch, 0.6 micron processing capability utilizing an extensive set of manufacturing processes to fabricate our products including technologies such as: BiCMOS, Power BiCMOS, High Frequency Bipolar and CMOS. We outsource complex sub-micron CMOS and BiCMOS manufacturing to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (“TSMC”), AMI Semiconductor, IBM Semiconductor and others. The table below sets forth certain information regarding our manufacturing facility, products, wafer diameter and annual wafer capacity: 

 

       
Location

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Products/Functions

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Wafer
Diameter

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Annual
Capacity
(6” Equiv.
Wafers)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Palm Bay, Florida
    Power Management ICs, Telecom SLICs and Standard Linear    4”, 6”    250,000 

 

Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers and various chemicals and gases. We obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. Under a multi-year supply agreement with ChipPAC, Inc. (“ChipPAC”), it is our primary provider of semiconductor assembly and test services. We augment ChipPAC’s capabilities by utilizing several other assembly and test service companies. We also have limited assembly and testing capabilities in Palm Bay, Florida and Milpitas, California. Although supplies for the raw materials used by us are currently adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. 

 

Backlog 

 

Our sales are made pursuant to cancelable purchase orders that are generally booked from one to six months in advance of delivery. Backlog is influenced by several factors, including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. We had backlog at January 2, 2004 of $83.6 million compared to $98.1 million at January 3, 2003. The backlog as of January 3, 2003 excludes $33.2 million related to the Wireless Networking product group. 

 

Seasonality 

 

The high end consumer and computing markets generally experience weak demand in the first fiscal quarter of each year and stronger demand in the third and fourth quarters. 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Competition 

 

We compete in our targeted markets on the basis of technical performance, product features, customized design, price, availability, quality and sales and technical support. Our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control, including successful and timely development of new products and manufacturing processes, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields, product availability, intellectual property protection obtained by us and our competitors, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general economic trends. 

 

Our major competitors include Analog Devices, Semtech Corporation, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, National Semiconductor and Texas Instruments. 

 

Trademarks and Patents 

 

We own rights to a number of trademarks and patents that are important to our business. Among others, we consider Intersil™, Elantec™, Endura™ and CommLink™ to be trademarks that are material to our operations. These trademarks do not expire, provided we continue to use the trademarks in our business. Some of our trademarks have been registered with U.S. and other trademark authorities that provide rights in addition to basic trademark rights. As long as we comply with renewal and other procedures specified by the applicable trademark laws, these additional rights will not expire. 

 

Our corporate policy is to protect proprietary products by obtaining patents for these products when practicable. We currently possess over 1,050 US and foreign patents and have approximately 300 US and foreign patents pending. The expiration dates of these patents range from 2004 to 2022. 

 

Employees 

 

Our worldwide workforce consisted of 1,598 employees (full- and part-time) as of January 2, 2004. None of the Company’s employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. 

 

Environmental Matters 

 

Our operations are subject to environmental laws in the countries in which we operate. The regulations govern, among other things, air and water emissions at our manufacturing facilities, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, and the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination. As with other companies in our business, the nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities and claims. We believe, however, that our operations are substantially in compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Our costs to comply with environmental regulations were about $2.6 million, $2.1 million and $1.7 million in fiscal years 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively. 

 

The Harris Corporation (“Harris”) facilities in Palm Bay, Florida, are listed on the National Priorities List (“NPL”) for groundwater clean up under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liabilities Act (“Superfund”). Our adjacent facility is included in the listing since it was owned by Harris at the time of the listing. Remediation activities associated with the NPL site have ceased. However, Harris is still obligated to conduct groundwater monitoring on our property for an unspecified period of time. Harris has indemnified us against any environmental liabilities associated with this contamination. This indemnification does not expire, nor does it have a maximum amount. 

 

Our former facility in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, which we sold to ChipPAC in June 2000, has known groundwater contamination from past operations. The contamination was discovered in May 2000, during the closure activities associated with a former waste storage pad. This contamination has been attributed to activities conducted prior to our acquisition of the facility from Harris. Harris is conducting additional investigations and some remediation may be required. Harris has indemnified us against any environmental liabilities associated with this contamination, and we indemnified ChipPAC against those liabilities. This indemnification does not expire, nor does it have a maximum amount. 

 

Also, an industrial wastewater treatment plant at our former facility in Kuala Lumpur did not have sufficient hydraulic capacity to effectively treat the wastewater flows associated with the level of production at the time of the sale to ChipPAC. In May, 2003 ChipPAC accepted a cash settlement for upgrading the industrial wastewater treatment plant and has issued us a release of claim. 

 

Our former facility in Mountaintop, Pennsylvania, which we sold to Fairchild Semiconductor (“Fairchild”) in February 2001, has experienced groundwater and subsurface contamination from past operations, all of which occurred prior to our acquisition of those facilities from Harris. Some 

 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
remediation has been conducted, and additional remediation may be required. Additionally, the neutralization plant suffered an out of compliance occurrence on November 11, 2000. As a result, we agreed to provide a redundant system to prevent any further disruptions. Also, the fluoride pretreatment plant for industrial wastewater, which was installed by Harris in 1995, failed to operate to design specifications and occasionally made discharges to the local sanitary authority that exceed pretreatment standards. Harris has conducted pilot studies and prepared a preliminary design to address the system’s deficiencies and local discharge requirements. Harris indemnified us in connection with the fluoride wastewater system, and we subsequently indemnified Fairchild in connection with Fairchild’s purchase of the facility. This matter was resolved in 2003, when we, Harris and Fairchild released each other from any future claims related to the treatment plant. 

 

Based on the historical costs of these projects and previous experience with other remediation activities, we do not believe that the future cleanup costs related to the Palm Bay, Kuala Lumpur and Mountaintop facilities will be material. 

 

Future laws or regulations and changes in the existing environmental laws or regulations may subject our operations to different, additional or more stringent standards. While historically the cost of compliance with environmental laws has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot predict with certainty our future costs of compliance because of changing standards and requirements. We cannot be certain that materials costs will not be incurred in connection with the future compliance with environmental laws or with future cleanup costs related to currently unknown contamination. 

 

Available Information 

 

We routinely file reports, as required, with the SEC, including but not limited to Forms 10-Q, Forms 10-K and Forms 8-K (and amendments thereto), all of which the public can access, free of charge, from our website (www.intersil.com). The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

 
