ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

     Integrated Silicon Solution, Inc. ("ISSI") designs, develops and markets
high performance memory semiconductors used in Internet access devices,
networking equipment, telecom and mobile communications equipment, computer
peripherals, and other applications. Our high speed and low power static random
access memories ("SRAM"), our low to medium density dynamic random access
memories ("DRAM"), and our family of electrically erasable programmable read
only memories ("EEPROM") enable customers to design products that meet the
demanding connectivity and portability requirements of the wireless
communications, data communications, and internet infrastructure markets. Our
objective is to capitalize on major trends such as the proliferation of wireless
devices, the expansion of the communications and Internet infrastructure, and
other trends in electronics technologies.

     The ever-expanding performance requirements in electronic systems place
increasing pressure on manufacturers to use sophisticated semiconductor memory
architecture within their systems. Manufacturers of leading-edge internet access
devices, ISP servers and networking routers and switches require high speed
memory architecture and devices within their systems to meet demands for faster
speed and response times. Similarly, the advent of handheld wireless
communications devices, such as cellular phones and personal digital assistants,
has necessitated the development of high performance memories that reduce power
consumption, increase battery life, and reduce size in order to maximize
portability. Our goal is to be a focused supplier of high performance memories
targeting the growing connectivity and communications markets.

     Our customers include industry leaders such as 3Com, Alcatel, Cisco,
Ericsson, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Lexmark, Motorola, Nokia and Seagate. Due to
their size and influence, these customers generally drive memory volumes in
their market segment and help define the direction of future memory products.
Our products offer our customers numerous benefits, including:

     -    high performance and functionality;

     -    high quality and reliability;

     -    leading-edge designs that facilitate the development of new, advanced
          systems; and

     -    advanced process technology.

     We believe our close relationship with leading silicon wafer foundries
gives us access to the advanced wafer process technology required to design and
manufacture high performance memories. We entered into our first development
program with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation ("TSMC") in 1990 and
with Chartered Semiconductor in 1994 and have also worked closely with United
Microelectronics Corporation ("UMC") since 1995. Through this collaborative
strategy, we have been in the forefront in utilizing the most advanced process
technology for memories and in securing access to wafer capacity.

                                       1
<PAGE>

     We believe that ISSI is a technology leader and that our ability to design
and develop high performance, cost-effective products, and our collaborative
development with our manufacturing partners utilizing state-of-the-art process
technology gives us a competitive advantage. Our strategy is to:

     -    target high growth markets and applications;

     -    further penetrate industry leading customers;

     -    build collaborative relationships with leading edge foundries; and

     -    continually develop high performance products.

BACKGROUND

     ISSI was incorporated in California in October 1988 and changed its state
of incorporation to Delaware in August 1993. Our principal executive offices are
located at 2231 Lawson Lane, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone
number is (408) 588-0800.

     We have a wholly owned subsidiary in the People's Republic of China that
focuses on sales, marketing and design and a subsidiary in Hong Kong that
primarily focuses on research and development. We own approximately 29% of a
public company in Taiwan (Integrated Circuit Solution, Inc. "ICSI", formerly
known as ISSI-Taiwan). ICSI became a public company in Taiwan in January 2001
and is listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. We have periodically sold our shares
in ICSI and our ownership was reduced in fiscal year 2001 from 39% to 29%. In
October 1998, we transferred our Flash memory business to a newly formed
company, NexFlash Technologies, Inc. ("NexFlash"). In February 2001, Winbond
purchased approximately 50% of NexFlash stock and our ownership was reduced from
32% to approximately 14%. We own approximately 20% of GetSilicon Inc.
("GetSilicon"), a provider of collaborative supply chain management solutions.
We also own approximately 22% of E-CMOS Corporation ("E-CMOS"), a fabless
semiconductor company located in Taiwan.

PRODUCTS

     We are a focused supplier of a family of both high speed and ultra low
power SRAMs, complementary low and medium density DRAMs, and other complementary
memory products. In fiscal year 2001, we derived approximately 67% of our
revenue from SRAMs, 27% from DRAMs, and 6% from other products.

SRAMS

     Our high performance SRAM products generally focus on either very high
speed or very low power. Our first high speed SRAMs were shipped in 1990. More
recently, driven by increasing demand in the hand-held and mobile markets, such
as cellular phones, we have developed a low power family of 1.8 volt and 2.7
volt SRAM products for wireless applications. To date we have derived
substantially all of our SRAM revenues from the sale of high speed SRAM
products.

     We offer both asynchronous and synchronous high speed SRAMs. Our high speed
asynchronous SRAMs are used in applications such as LANs, telecommunication
equipment and base stations, bridges, routers, modems, multimedia products, and
industrial instrumentation. Current asynchronous SRAM densities include 64K (8K
x 8), 256K (32K x 8), 512K (64K x 8 and 32K x 16), 1 megabit (128K x 8, 64K x
16), 2 megabit (128K x 16 and 256K x 8), 3 megabit (128K x 24), 4 megabit (256K
x 16 and 512K x 8), and 8 megabit (512K x 16). Our high speed synchronous SRAMs
are used in a variety of networking and telecommunications applications. Current
synchronous densities include 1 Megabit (32K x 32), 2 Megabit (64K x 32/36), 4
Megabit (256K x 16/18 and 128K x 32/36), 8 Megabit (256K x 32/36 and 512K x 18)
and 16 Megabit (512K x 32/36 and 1M x 18). Additional SRAM products are under
development and are expected to include performance-leading features in speed,
configuration, power levels, density, and packaging. For example, we helped form
a consortium of leading SRAM suppliers to define the configuration, performance,
and package specifications for a new 18 megabit synchronous SRAM, named
SigmaRAM. We are developing a large portfolio of SigmaRAM products including
common I/O, separate I/O, and double data rate options to address various
application needs.

                                       2
<PAGE>

DRAMS

     Our low and medium density DRAM products complement our high performance
SRAM products. They are typically sold through the same channels to the same end
customers and enhance ISSI's position as an experienced memory supplier.
Applications for our DRAMs include telecommunications base stations, personal
digital assistants ("PDA"), set top boxes, networking equipment, disk drives,
tape drives, and printers. We currently offer 4, 8, and 16 megabit Fast Page
Mode ("FPM"), Extended Data Out ("EDO"), plus 4, 16 and 64 megabit SDRAM
devices. Additional DRAM products, including low power SDRAMs, are under
development. Our DRAM products are not targeted at the main memory DRAM market.

OTHER MEMORY PRODUCTS

     Our other memory products include high performance serial EEPROMs, embedded
EEPROM products, and voice recording chips. Applications for these products
include cellular phones, pagers, networking systems, modems, telephone sets,
security systems, smart cards, video games, automobiles, and other consumer
products.

DESIGN AND PROCESS TECHNOLOGY

     We believe that ISSI is a technology leader. In the semiconductor industry,
wafer fabrication facilities often use memories in the development of advanced
process technology because memory products are particularly well suited for
process research and development. Our process development partnerships with TSMC
and Chartered Semiconductor enable us to design memories at leading edge
geometries. Currently, we are designing new products utilizing 0.18 micron, 0.15
micron, and 0.13 micron geometries. Our technology development engineers work
closely with our manufacturing partners in this effort. The result is that we
continue to produce SRAM products at the leading edge of worldwide semiconductor
capabilities and we believe that our partnership development strategy gives us a
competitive strength.

     Our design efforts focus on product specification, memory cell and array
structure, circuit design, simulation, and layout. We invest in advanced
computer aided design ("CAD") systems to ensure that the design team has
state-of-the-art design tools and employs innovative and rigorous design
methodologies. We utilize focused design teams for new product development and
can efficiently migrate proprietary design features to new generation products.
We have design organizations in Santa Clara and in three Asian locations.

MANUFACTURING

     We combine our process technology expertise, foundry partnership strategy,
and equity investment arrangements to form a hybrid of the fab and fabless
business models which we call Fab-Lite. We do not own or operate our own wafer
foundry but, because memory products are particularly well suited for the
development of advanced process technology, we actively participate in
developing and refining the process technology used to manufacture many of our
products. We believe that this strategy enables us to achieve the early
introduction of advanced geometries for our high performance memory products,
which results in increased performance and lower manufacturing costs. To date,
our principal manufacturing relationships have been with TSMC in Taiwan and with
Chartered Semiconductor in Singapore.

     In June 1996, ISSI entered into a business venture called WaferTech, LLC
with TSMC, Altera, Analog Devices, and private investors to build a wafer
fabrication facility in Camas, Washington. The fabrication facility, which began
production in 1998, is an advanced process technology facility capable of 0.35,
0.30, 0.25 and 0.18 micron process technology. In December 2000, we sold our
investment of $23.5 million in WaferTech to TSMC for $40.7 million.

     In 2000, ISSI entered into a wafer fabrication facility investment
agreement with Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation ("SMIC"),
the first 8-inch foundry to be built in the People's Republic of China. Under
the terms of this agreement, ISSI has committed to invest $30 million. In April
2001, ISSI committed to invest an additional $10.0 million, raising our total
commitment to $40.0 million. ISSI has received certain capacity commitments from
SMIC. As of September 30, 2001, ISSI had invested $18.9 million in this foundry,
and $21.1 million is expected to be invested in fiscal year 2002.

                                       3
<PAGE>

     ISSI outsources its manufacturing process. The manufacturing of our
products begins at our independent wafer foundry partners, principally TSMC and
Chartered Semiconductor. Once the foundry has completed wafer processing, the
wafers are then shipped to subcontractors for wafer testing. The wafers are then
sawed or cut into individual memory chips and those that passed at wafer test
are assembled into final packages. The completed memory device is then tested
again at final test. Our U.S. headquarters develops and debugs test programs and
test procedures. Third party subcontractors in Taiwan and Singapore perform the
wafer sort, assembly and test operations. Our U.S. and Taiwan operations group
performs subcontractor management. A comprehensive quality control program is in
place. We are certified under ISO 9001 standards and our quality system is
periodically reviewed and approved by both ISO certifiers and our customers. We
are currently adopting the newest ISO standards, ISO 9000/2001.

     Each of our wafer suppliers also fabricates for other integrated circuit
companies, including certain of our competitors. In addition, UMC subsidiaries
manufacture integrated circuits, including SRAMs, for their own account.
Although we have written commitments specifying wafer capacities from our
suppliers, if these suppliers experience manufacturing failures or yield
shortfalls, choose to prioritize capacity for other use or reduce or eliminate
deliveries to us, there can be no assurance that we could enforce fulfillment of
the delivery commitments. We believe our technology development partnerships
mitigate such risk.

     There can be no assurance that the foundries we use will not encounter
construction or production difficulties or that they will allocate sufficient
wafer capacity to satisfy our wafer requirements, especially in times of wafer
capacity shortages. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we would be able to
qualify additional manufacturing sources for existing or new products in a
timely manner or that such additional manufacturing sources would be able to
produce an adequate supply of wafers. If we were unable to obtain an adequate
supply of wafers from our current or any alternative sources in a timely manner,
our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected.

     Although our policy is to work closely with our manufacturing sources,
there are certain risks associated with the use of independent foundries,
including the absence of a controlled source of supply, or delays in obtaining
adequate wafer supplies. In addition, the manufacture of integrated circuits is
a highly complex and technically demanding process. Production yields and device
reliability can be affected by a large number of factors. As is typical in the
semiconductor industry, our outside foundries have from time to time experienced
lower than anticipated manufacturing yields and device reliability problems,
particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and changes in
such foundry's processing steps. There can be no assurance that our foundries
will not experience lower than expected manufacturing yields or device
reliability problems in the future, which could materially and adversely affect
our business and operating results.

CUSTOMERS AND MARKETING

     We have focused our marketing efforts on three major market segments that
include Internet access devices, networking, and telecom/mobile communications.
In addition, our memory chips are used in other market segments, including
computer peripherals such as printers and automotive applications. We market our
products through a direct sales force, independent sales representatives, and
distributors. We have four distributors in North America and distributors in
most of the countries of Western Europe, Japan and targeted countries in Asia.
We continue to expand our marketing and sales activity. We have sales offices in
the United States, Europe, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the People's Republic of
China. Our customers include a broad range of electronic system manufacturers
such as Alcatel, Cisco Systems, 3Com, Ericsson, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Lexmark,
Motorola, Nokia and Seagate. Sales to Flextronics International accounted for
approximately 15% of net sales for fiscal 2001. Substantially all of the sales
to Flextronics were for products to be delivered to Cisco Systems, Inc.
Shipments for Cisco directly, or indirectly through subcontractors, accounted
for approximately 18% of net sales for fiscal 2001. Sales to 3Com accounted for
approximately 7% of net sales for fiscal 2001. Shipments for 3Com directly, or
indirectly through subcontractors, accounted for approximately 11% of net sales
for fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2000, no single customer accounted for over 10% of
net sales. However, in fiscal 2000, shipments for Cisco directly, or indirectly
through subcontractors, accounted for approximately 13% of net revenue. In
fiscal 1999, one customer, 3Com, accounted for approximately 20% of net sales.

     Our sales and marketing efforts are directed from our Santa Clara
headquarters. In fiscal 2001, approximately 52% of our net sales was
attributable to customers located in the United States, 25% was attributable to
customers located in Europe and 23% was attributable to customers located in
Asia. In fiscal 2000, approximately 54% of our

                                       4
<PAGE>

net sales was attributable to customers located in the United States, 23% was
attributable to customers located in Europe and 23% was attributable to
customers located in Asia. In fiscal 1999, approximately 52% of our net sales
was attributable to customers located in the United States, 20% was attributable
to customers located in Europe and 28% was attributable to customers located in
Asia. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     We are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally,
including economic conditions in Asia, particularly Taiwan and the People's
Republic of China, changes in trade policy and regulatory requirements, duties,
tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions, the burdens of complying with
foreign laws and, possibly, political instability. We anticipate that sales to
international customers will continue to represent a significant percentage of
net sales. Substantially all of our foundries and assembly and test operations
are located in Asia. Although we transact business predominately in U.S.
dollars, we do have some transactions in New Taiwan ("NT") dollars, in Hong Kong
("HK") dollars and in China Renminbi ("RMB"). Such transactions expose us to the
risk of exchange rate fluctuations. We monitor our exposure to foreign currency
fluctuations, and from time to time have taken action to hedge against such
exposure, but have not to date adopted any formal hedging strategy. There can be
no assurance that exchange rate fluctuations will not materially and adversely
affect our business and operating results in the future.

     Our sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders, which
can be revised to reflect changes in the customer's requirements. Generally,
purchase orders and OEM agreements allow customers to reschedule delivery dates
and cancel purchase orders without significant penalties. For these reasons, we
believe that our backlog, while useful for scheduling production, is not
necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues.

COMPETITION

     The semiconductor memory market is intensely competitive and has been
characterized by cyclical market conditions, an oversupply of product, price
erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, and foreign and
domestic competition. Our ability to compete successfully in the high
performance memory market depends on factors both within and outside of our
control, including wafer manufacturing over or under capacity and the resultant
imbalances in supply and demand, product pricing, the rate at which OEM
customers incorporate our products into their systems, the success of the OEM's
products, access to advanced process technologies at competitive prices, product
functionality, performance, and reliability, successful and timely product
development, wafer supply, wafer costs, achievement of acceptable yields of
functional die, the gain or loss of significant customers, the performance of
our competitors and general economic conditions. We may not be able to compete
successfully in the future as to any of these factors. Our failure to compete
successfully in these or other areas could materially and adversely affect our
business and operating results.

     The SRAM market is generally a fragmented market and specific competitors
and competitive factors vary based on geographic regions and market segments. In
the SRAM market, we compete with several major domestic and international
semiconductor companies including Alliance Semiconductor, Cypress Semiconductor,
Integrated Device Technology ("IDT"), Mitsubishi, Motorola, Samsung, and
Winbond. We also compete with new and emerging companies such as Giga
Semiconductor. We also may face significant competition from other domestic and
foreign integrated circuit manufacturers which have advanced technological
capabilities, but have not previously participated in the SRAM market sector. We
may not be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors.

     In the low to medium density DRAM area, we compete with Alliance,
Mosel-Vitelic, Vanguard and Oki. Other main memory DRAM companies could address
this market in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
compete successfully against any of these competitors. In the EEPROM market, our
primary competitors include Atmel and SGS-Thomson Microelectronics. We also
compete with many small to medium-sized companies in one or more segments of the
market.

     Certain of our competitors offer broader product lines and have greater
financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. We
may not be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors.

     The process technology used by our manufacturing sources, including process
technology that we have developed with our foundries, can be used by such
manufacturers to produce products for other companies, including our
competitors. Although we believe that our participation in the development of
the processes provides

                                       5
<PAGE>

us the advantage of early access to such processes, the knowledge of the
manufacturer may be used to benefit our competitors.

PRODUCT WARRANTY

     Consistent with semiconductor memory industry practice, we generally
provide a limited warranty that our semiconductor memory devices are in
compliance with specifications existing at the time of delivery. Liability for a
stated warranty period is limited to replacement of defective items or return of
amounts paid.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Rapid technological change and continuing price competition require
research and development efforts on both new products and advanced processes
employing smaller geometries. Our research and development activities are
focused primarily on the development of advanced process technologies and new
memory circuit designs. We currently design most of our high performance memory
products and jointly develop advanced process technology with our manufacturing
partners from our headquarters in Santa Clara, California and three design
centers in Asia operated by ISSI.

     New SRAM products in design include wide voltage (1.8v -- 3.3v) low power 2
meg, 4 meg and 8 meg asynchronous SRAMs, in addition to high speed 18 meg, 32
meg and 36 meg synchronous devices. These new synchronous SRAMs include the new
industry-standard Sigma RAMs. We have several 64 meg DRAM devices under design.
We are developing our new SRAM and DRAM products on industry leading 0.13, 0.15,
and 0.18 micron process technologies. We are presently evaluating 0.10 micron
process technology for our next generation products. In nonvolatile memory, our
future products are expected to include 128K, 256K, and 512K density serial
EEPROM devices. Our research and development expenditures in fiscal 2001, 2000,
and 1999 were $25.3 million, $18.3 million, and $18.8 million, respectively.

PATENTS

     As of September 30, 2001, we held 67 U.S. patents. These patents expire
between 2010 and 2021. We have four (4) additional patent applications pending
and expect to continue to file patent applications where appropriate to protect
our proprietary technologies. Although patents are an important element of our
intellectual property, we believe that our continued success depends primarily
on factors such as the technological skills and innovation of our personnel
rather than on our patents. The process of seeking patent protection can be
expensive and time consuming. There can be no assurance that patents will be
issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they
will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that rights granted
thereunder will provide meaningful protection or other commercial advantage to
us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patent rights will be upheld in
the future or that we will be able to preserve any of our other intellectual
property rights.

     In the semiconductor industry, it is not unusual for companies to receive
notices alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights
of others. We have been, and from time-to-time expect to be, notified of claims
that we may be infringing patents, maskwork rights or copyrights owned by third
parties. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under
patents that we are alleged to be infringing. Although patent holders commonly
offer such licenses, licenses may not be offered and the terms of any offered
licenses may not be acceptable to us.

     The failure to obtain a license under a key patent or intellectual property
right from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur
substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of the products utilizing
the invention or to attempt to develop non-infringing products, any of which
could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
Furthermore, we may become involved in protracted litigation regarding the
alleged infringement by us of third party intellectual property rights or
litigation to assert and protect our patents or other intellectual property
rights. Any litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual
property matters could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources
which could harm our business.

                                       6
<PAGE>

EMPLOYEES

     As of September 30, 2001, we had approximately 176 employees in the U.S.,
32 in Taiwan, 31 in the People's Republic of China, and 16 in Hong Kong. Total
employment, including subsidiaries is approximately 255 people. Our future
success will largely be dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate
highly qualified technical and management personnel. The employment market for
such personnel is extremely competitive and there can be no assurance that we
will successfully staff all necessary positions. Our employees are not
represented by any collective bargaining agreements and we have never
experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are good.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Our executive officers and their ages as of September 30, 2001 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name                         Age       Position
<S>                          <C>       <C>
Jimmy S.M. Lee               46        Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Gary L. Fischer              50        President, Chief Operating Officer, and Director
Michael McDonald             48        Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary
Paul Song                    46        Senior Vice President, Engineering
</TABLE>

BACKGROUND OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     Jimmy S.M. Lee has served as ISSI's Chief Executive Officer and a director
since he co-founded the Company in October 1988. He also served as ISSI's
president until May 2000. From 1985 to 1988, Mr. Lee was engineering manager at
International CMOS Technology, Inc., a semiconductor company, and from 1983 to
1985, he was a design manager at Signetics Corporation, a semiconductor company.
Prior thereto, Mr. Lee was a project manager at Toshiba Semiconductor
Corporation and a design engineer at National Semiconductor Corporation. Mr. Lee
has served as a director of ICSI since September 1990, as a director of NexFlash
since October 1998, as chairman of the board of GetSilicon since July 2000, and
as chairman of the board of E-CMOS since September 2001. Mr. Lee holds a M.S.
degree in electrical engineering from Texas Tech University and a B.S. degree in
electrical engineering from National Taiwan University.

     Gary L. Fischer has served as ISSI's President and Chief Operating Officer
since April 2001. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer from April 1995 to March 2001, and as Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer from June 1993 to March 1995. From January 1989 to December 1992, Mr.
Fischer was Chief Financial Officer of Synergy Semiconductor Corporation, a
manufacturer of high performance SRAM and logic integrated circuits. He has also
been a director of E-CMOS since November 2001. Mr. Fischer holds an M.B.A.
degree from the University of Santa Clara and a B.A. degree from the University
of California, Santa Barbara.

     Michael McDonald has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since June 2001. He was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and
Secretary at REMEC, Inc., a manufacturer of wireless communications hardware,
from 1997 to May 2001. From February 1984 to September 1997, Mr. McDonald was
Chief Financial Officer at Magnum Microwave Corporation, a manufacturer of
wireless communications hardware. Mr. McDonald holds an MBA degree from
California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo and a BS degree in
mathematics from the University of San Francisco.

     Paul Song has served as Senior Vice President, Engineering since April
2000. He served as Vice President, Engineering from April 1999 to April 2000. He
also served as Vice President, Design Engineering from July 1996 to April 1999.
He joined ISSI in July 1990 as Director, Nonvolatile Memory Design Engineering.
Previously he held design engineering positions at ICT, Exel Microelectronics,
Inc. and AMD. Dr. Song holds a Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from
Stanford University, a M.S. degree in electrical engineering from the University
of California, Santa Barbara, and a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from
National Taiwan University.

     Officers serve at the discretion of the Board and are appointed annually.
There are no family relationships between the directors or officers of ISSI.
