Item 1.     Business 

General 

      Integrated Silicon Solution, Inc. (“ISSI”) is a technology leader in high performance memory semiconductors. We design, develop and market memory products used in networking, Internet infrastructure, telecommunications, wireless products, handheld devices, computer peripherals, and automotive electronics. Our products incorporate state-of-the-art circuit design and advanced process technology. Our high speed and low power static random access memories (“SRAM”), low to medium density dynamic random access memories (“DRAM”), and our family of electrically erasable programmable read only memories (“EEPROM”) enable designers to meet the demanding connectivity, portability, and bandwidth requirements of today’s leading edge electronic products. In addition, we have multichip packages combining Flash and SRAM (“MCP”), BluetoothTM wireless chipsets, and parallel search processors or content addressable memories (“CAM”) in development. Our objective is to capitalize on major trends in electronic products and position ISSI as a key supplier of memory and non-memory products to leading companies in such markets. 

      The ever-expanding performance requirements in electronic systems place increasing pressure on manufacturers to use sophisticated semiconductor memory architecture within their systems. Manufacturers of digital consumer products, such as DVD players and printers, require memory to enhance product performance. Manufacturers of leading-edge internet access devices, ISP servers and networking routers and switches require high speed memory architecture and devices within their systems to meet demands for faster speed and response times. Similarly, the advent of handheld wireless communications devices, such as cellular phones and personal digital assistants, has necessitated the development of high performance memories that reduce power consumption, increase battery life, and reduce size in order to maximize portability. Our goal is to be a focused supplier of high performance memories targeting the mobile communications, networking/broadband, digital consumer, and automotive electronics markets. 

      Our customers include industry leaders such as 3Com, Alcatel, Cisco, Delphi, Ericsson, Lexmark, LG Electronics, Motorola, NEC, Nokia, Panasonic, Seagate, and Sharp. Due to their size and influence, these customers generally drive memory volumes in their market segment and help define the direction of future memory products. Our products offer our customers numerous benefits, including: 

   
  •  high performance and functionality;  
  
  •  high quality and reliability;  


2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

   
  •  long-term supply;  
  
  •  leading-edge designs that facilitate the development of new, advanced systems; and  
  
  •  advanced process technology.  


      We believe our close relationship with leading silicon wafer foundries gives us access to the advanced wafer process technology required to design and manufacture high performance memories. We entered into our first development program with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation (“TSMC”) in 1990 and with Chartered Semiconductor in 1994. We have also worked closely with United Microelectronics Corporation (“UMC”) since 1995. We are also an equity investor and have a seat on the board of directors of Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (“SMIC”), the first eight-inch wafer foundry in China. Through this strategy of technology collaboration, we have been in the forefront in utilizing the most advanced process technology for memories and in securing access to wafer capacity. 

      We believe that ISSI is a technology leader and that our ability to design and develop high performance, cost-effective products, and our collaborative development with our manufacturing partners utilizing state-of-the-art process technology gives us a competitive advantage. Our strategy is to: 

   
  •  target high growth markets and applications;  
  
  •  further penetrate industry leading customers;  
  
  •  build collaborative relationships with leading edge foundries;  
  
  •  continually develop high performance products; and  
  
  •  commit to long-term supply of our products.  


Background 

      ISSI was incorporated in California in October 1988 and changed its state of incorporation to Delaware in August 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 2231 Lawson Lane, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is (408) 588-0800. 

      We have a branch office in Taiwan that focuses on manufacturing logistics, sales, marketing, and engineering. We have a wholly owned subsidiary in the People’s Republic of China (Shanghai) that focuses on sales, marketing, manufacturing logistics, and design; a subsidiary in Hong Kong that primarily focuses on research, development, and material control; and a subsidiary in Korea that focuses on design. We own approximately 29% of a public company in Taiwan (Integrated Circuit Solution, Inc. “ICSI”, formerly known as ISSI-Taiwan). ICSI became a public company in Taiwan in January 2001 and is listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. We own approximately 14% of NexFlash Technology, Inc. (“NexFlash”), a Flash memory company. We own approximately 17% of GetSilicon Inc. (“GetSilicon”), a provider of collaborative supply chain management solutions. We also own approximately 26% of E-CMOS Corporation (“E-CMOS”), a fabless semiconductor company located in Taiwan. 

Products 

      We are a focused supplier of a family of both high speed and ultra low power SRAMs, complementary low and medium density DRAMs, EEPROM and other complementary memory products. We have three additional product lines under development that did not contribute to revenue in fiscal 2002, but which we believe may contribute to revenue in fiscal 2003. These are MultiChip Packages (MCP), Network Search Processors, and BlueToothTM wireless chip sets. In fiscal 2002, we derived approximately 53% of our revenue from SRAMs, 40% from DRAMs, and 7% from other products. 

SRAMs 

      Our high performance SRAM products generally focus on either very high speed or very low power. Our first high speed SRAMs were shipped in 1990. More recently, driven by increasing demand in the hand-held 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

and mobile markets, such as cellular phones, we have developed a low power family of 1.65-2.2 volt and 2.5-3.6 volt SRAM products for wireless applications. Densities include 2Mb (128Kx16, 256Kx8), 4Mb (256Kx16, 512Kx8), and 8Mb (1Mx8, 512Kx16). To date we have derived substantially all of our SRAM revenues from the sale of high speed SRAM products. 
      Our objective is to be a complete SRAM supplier and support all of a customer’s SRAM requirements. We make long term supply commitments on older products and also offer leading edge products. We offer both asynchronous and synchronous high speed SRAMs. Our high speed asynchronous SRAMs are used in applications such as LANs, telecommunication equipment and base stations, bridges, routers, modems, multimedia products, and industrial instrumentation. Current asynchronous SRAM densities include 64Kb (8K x 8), 256Kb (32K x 8), 512Kb (64K x 8 and 32K x 16), 1 megabit (128K x 8, 64K x 16), 2 megabit (128K x 16 and 256K x 8), 3 megabit (128K x 24), 4 megabit (256K x 16 and 512K x 8), and 8 megabit (512K x 16). Our high speed synchronous SRAMs are used in a variety of networking and telecommunications applications. Current synchronous densities include 1 Megabit (32K x 32), 2 Megabit (64K x 32/36), 4 Megabit (256K x 16/18 and 128K x 32/36), 8 Megabit (256K x 32/36 and 512K x 18) and 16 Megabit (512K x 32/36 and 1M x 18). Additional SRAM products are under development and are expected to include performance-leading features in speed, configuration, power levels, density, and packaging. For example, we helped form a consortium of leading SRAM suppliers to define the configuration, performance, and package specifications for a new 18 megabit synchronous SRAM, named SigmaRAM. We are also developing PseudoSRAMs, which are higher density devices that utilize the SRAM architecture and DRAM cell structure. PseudoSRAM products are expected to be available in fiscal 2003. 

DRAMs 

      Our low and medium density DRAM products complement our high performance SRAM products. They are typically sold through the same channels, often to the same end customers, and enhance ISSI’s position as an experienced memory supplier. Our DRAM products are not targeted at the main memory DRAM market and we do not compete in those markets requiring the highest density DRAMs, such as those used in PCs. Applications for our low and medium density DRAMs include digital consumer products, such as DVD players and set-top boxes, automotive electronics, telecommunications base stations, personal digital assistants (“PDA”), networking equipment, disk drives, tape drives, and printers. We currently offer 4 and 16 megabit Fast Page Mode (“FPM”), Extended Data Out (“EDO”), plus 4, 16 and 64 megabit SDRAM devices. Additional DRAM products, including low power SDRAMs, are under development. 

EEPROM and Other Memory Products 

      Our other memory products include high performance serial EEPROMs (1Kb-128Kb), embedded EEPROM products, and voice recording chips. Applications for these products include cellular phones, pagers, networking systems, modems, telephone sets, security systems, smart cards, video games, automobiles, and other consumer products. To date, revenue from these products is less than 10% of total revenue. 

Product Lines Under Development 

      We have three new product lines under development as of September 30, 2002. Our MultiChip Package (“MCP”) product combines two chips — an SRAM and a Flash — in one package. MCPs are used to conserve space in an electronic design. Many cell phones and PDAs use MCPs. In fiscal 2001, we announced a cooperative program with Fujitsu to provide MCPs using Fujitsu Flash and ISSI SRAM. We now have several customer qualifications of our MCP approved and expect to begin revenue shipments in the first half of fiscal 2003. 

      Our Network Search Processors (“NSP”), also known as Content Addressable Memories (“CAM”), can be used for flexible, simultaneous addressing in network and telecom applications. They can also be embedded in other logic chips. We may license the NSP design architecture or produce our own ISSI NSPs. However, the NSP market as of September 30, 2002 is depressed. Our development efforts continue but it is uncertain when or if actual revenue will be achieved. 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      Our BlueToothTM wireless chip sets can be used for short distance wireless communication for applications such as cell phones, PDAs, PC peripherals, headsets, and other consumer products. This product line is a non-memory product line, reflecting our diversification strategy. We acquired certain BlueToothTM rights and BlueToothTM technology in connection with an equity investment in a development-stage company and have formed a joint development program with them. We expect to begin revenue generation from these products in mid calendar 2003. 

Design and Process Technology 

      We believe that ISSI is a technology leader. In the semiconductor industry, wafer fabrication facilities often use memories in the development of advanced process technology because memory products are particularly well suited for process research and development. Our process development partnerships with TSMC and Chartered Semiconductor enable us to design memories at leading edge geometries. Our technology development engineers work closely with our manufacturing partners in this effort. The result is that we continue to produce SRAM products at the leading edge of worldwide semiconductor capabilities and we believe that our partnership development strategy gives us a competitive strength. 

      Our design efforts focus on product specification, memory cell and array structure, circuit design, simulation, and layout. We invest in advanced computer aided design (“CAD”) systems to ensure that the design team has state-of-the-art design tools and employs innovative and rigorous design methodologies. We utilize focused design teams for new product development and can efficiently migrate proprietary design features to new generation products. We currently have design organizations in Santa Clara, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and Korea. 

Manufacturing 

      We combine our process technology expertise, foundry partnership strategy, and equity investment arrangements to form a hybrid of the fab and fabless business models which we call Fab-Lite. We do not own or operate our own wafer foundry but, because memory products are particularly well suited for the development of advanced process technology, we actively participate in developing and refining the process technology used to manufacture many of our products. We believe that this strategy enables us to achieve the early introduction of advanced geometries for our high performance memory products, which results in increased performance and lower manufacturing costs. To date, our principal manufacturing relationships have been with TSMC in Taiwan and with Chartered Semiconductor in Singapore. In fiscal 2002, we also began production at SMIC in China. 

      In 2000, ISSI made a commitment for an equity investment in SMIC, the first 8-inch wafer foundry in the People’s Republic of China. SMIC is located in the Shanghai/ Pudong area, very near ISSI’s China headquarters. As of September 30, 2002, ISSI had invested $40 million in SMIC. We have no further commitments to SMIC for additional equity investments at this time. ISSI has a seat on the SMIC board of directors. 

      Previously, we had an equity investment with TSMC, along with Altera and Analog Devices, in TSMC’s Washington State wafer foundry named WaferTech. We also had an equity investment in a UMC wafer foundry. Both of these investments have been sold back to TSMC and UMC respectively, but we believe our participation has deepened our business relationships with these two companies. 

      ISSI outsources its manufacturing process. The manufacturing of our products begins at our independent wafer foundry partners, principally TSMC, Chartered Semiconductor, and SMIC. Once the foundry has completed wafer processing, the wafers are then shipped to subcontractors for wafer testing. The wafers are then sawed or cut into individual memory chips and those that passed at wafer test are assembled into final packages. The completed memory device is then tested again at final test. Our U.S. headquarters develops and debugs test programs and test procedures. Third party subcontractors in Taiwan and Singapore perform the wafer sort, assembly and test operations. We expect to include subcontractors in China, beginning in fiscal 2003. Our operations groups in the US, Taiwan, and China perform subcontractor management. A comprehensive quality control program is in place. We are certified under ISO 9001/2000 standards and our 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

quality system is periodically reviewed and approved by both ISO certifiers and our customers. We plan to achieve certification for IS/TS 16949, the new automotive standard, and ISO 14000, the environmental standard, in 2003 or 2004. 
      Each of our wafer suppliers also fabricates for other integrated circuit companies, including certain of our competitors. In addition, UMC subsidiaries manufacture integrated circuits, including SRAMs, for their own account. Although we have written commitments specifying wafer capacities from some suppliers, if any suppliers experience manufacturing failures or yield shortfalls, choose to prioritize capacity for other use or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, there can be no assurance that we could enforce fulfillment of any delivery commitments. We believe our technology development partnerships and history of equity investments mitigate such risk. 

      There can be no assurance that the foundries we use will not encounter construction or production difficulties or that they will allocate sufficient wafer capacity to satisfy our wafer requirements, especially in times of wafer capacity shortages. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we would be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for existing or new products in a timely manner or that such additional manufacturing sources would be able to produce an adequate supply of wafers. If we were unable to obtain an adequate supply of wafers from our current or any alternative sources in a timely manner, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. 

      Although our policy is to work closely with our manufacturing sources, there are certain risks associated with the use of independent foundries, including the absence of a controlled source of supply or delays in obtaining adequate wafer supplies. In addition, the manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Production yields and device reliability can be affected by a large number of factors. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, our outside foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields and device reliability problems, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and changes in such foundry’s processing steps. There can be no assurance that our foundries will not experience lower than expected manufacturing yields or device reliability problems in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 

Customers and Marketing 

      We have focused our marketing efforts on four major market segments: mobile communications, networking/ broadband, digital consumer, and automotive electronics. We market our products through a direct sales force, independent sales representatives, and distributors. We have four distributors in North America and distributors in most of the countries of Western Europe, Japan, targeted countries in Asia, and India. We continue to expand our marketing and sales activity. We have sales offices in the United States, Europe, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the People’s Republic of China. Our customers include a broad range of electronic system manufacturers such as 3Com, Alcatel, Cisco, Delphi, Ericsson, Lexmark, LG Electronics, Motorola, NEC, Nokia, Panasonic, Seagate, and Sharp. In fiscal 2002, no single customer accounted for over 10% of net sales. Sales to Flextronics International accounted for approximately 15% of net sales for fiscal 2001. Substantially all of our sales to Flextronics were for products to be delivered to Cisco Systems, Inc. Shipments for Cisco directly, or indirectly through subcontractors, accounted for approximately 18% of net sales for fiscal 2001. Sales to 3Com accounted for approximately 7% of net sales for fiscal 2001. Shipments for 3Com directly, or indirectly through subcontractors, accounted for approximately 11% of net sales for fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2000, no single customer accounted for over 10% of net sales. However, in fiscal 2000, shipments for Cisco directly, or indirectly through subcontractors, accounted for approximately 13% of net revenue. 

      Our sales and marketing efforts are directed from our Santa Clara headquarters. In fiscal 2002, approximately 29% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the United States, 14% was attributable to customers located in Europe and 56% was attributable to customers located in Asia. In fiscal 2001, approximately 51% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the United States, 25% was attributable to customers located in Europe and 23% was attributable to customers located in Asia. In fiscal 2000, approximately 51% of our net sales was attributable to customers located in the United States, 22% was 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

attributable to customers located in Europe and 24% was attributable to customers located in Asia. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
      We are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including economic conditions in Asia, particularly Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, changes in trade policy and regulatory requirements, duties, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions, the burdens of complying with foreign laws and, possibly, political instability. We anticipate that sales to international customers will continue to represent a significant percentage of net sales. Substantially all of our foundries and assembly and test operations are located in Asia. Although we transact business predominately in U.S. dollars, we do have some transactions in New Taiwan (“NT”) dollars, in Hong Kong (“HK”) dollars and in China Renminbi (“RMB”). Such transactions expose us to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. We monitor our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, and from time to time have taken action to hedge against such exposure, but have not to date adopted any formal hedging strategy. There can be no assurance that exchange rate fluctuations will not materially and adversely affect our business and operating results in the future. 

      Our sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders, which can be revised to reflect changes in the customer’s requirements. Generally, purchase orders and OEM agreements allow customers to reschedule delivery dates and cancel purchase orders without significant penalties. For these reasons, we believe that our backlog, while useful for scheduling production, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues. 

Competition 

      The semiconductor memory market is intensely competitive and has been characterized by cyclical market conditions, an oversupply of product, price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, and foreign and domestic competition. Our ability to compete successfully in the high performance memory market depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including: 

   
  •  wafer manufacturing over or under capacity and the resultant imbalances in supply and demand;  
  
  •  product pricing;  
  
  •  the rate at which OEM customers incorporate our products into their systems;  
  
  •  the success of the OEM’s products and end-user demand;  
  
  •  access to advanced process technologies at competitive prices;  
  
  •  product functionality, performance, and reliability;  
  
  •  successful and timely product development;  
  
  •  wafer supply;  
  
  •  wafer costs;  
  
  •  achievement of acceptable yields of functional die;  
  
  •  the gain or loss of significant customers;  
  
  •  the performance of our competitors and their pricing policies; and  
  
  •  general economic conditions.  


We may not be able to compete successfully in the future as to any of these factors. Our failure to compete successfully in these or other areas could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 

      The SRAM market is generally a fragmented market and specific competitors and competitive factors vary based on geographic regions and market segments. In the SRAM market, we compete with several major domestic and international semiconductor companies including Alliance Semiconductor, Cypress Semiconductor, Etron, Integrated Device Technology (“IDT”), Mitsubishi, Samsung, and Sony. We also compete with new and emerging companies such as Giga Semiconductor. We also may face significant competition 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

from other domestic and foreign integrated circuit manufacturers which have advanced technological capabilities, but have not previously participated in the SRAM market sector. We may not be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors. 
      In the low to medium density DRAM area, we generally compete with Alliance, Mosel-Vitelic, HyNEX, Vanguard, and Oki. Samsung and Micron re-entered the medium density market in the recent down cycle and other main memory DRAM companies could address this market in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors. In the EEPROM market, our primary competitors include Atmel, Catalyst, and SGS-Thomson Microelectronics. We also compete with many small to medium-sized companies in one or more segments of the market. 

      Certain of our competitors offer broader product lines and have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. In down cycles, they may be willing to sell below fully absorbed costs at prices we cannot match. We may not be able to compete successfully against any of these competitors. 

      The process technology used by our manufacturing sources, including process technology that we have developed with our foundries, can be used by such manufacturers to produce products for other companies, including our competitors. Although we believe that our participation in the development of the processes provides us the advantage of early access to such processes, the knowledge of the wafer manufacturer may be used to benefit our competitors. 

Product Warranty 

      Consistent with semiconductor memory industry practice, we generally provide a limited warranty that our semiconductor memory devices are in compliance with specifications existing at the time of delivery. Liability for a stated warranty period is limited to replacement of defective items or return of amounts paid. 

Research and Development 

      Rapid technological change and continuing price competition require research and development efforts on both new products and advanced processes employing smaller geometries. Our research and development activities are focused primarily on the development of advanced process technologies and new memory circuit designs. We currently design most of our high performance memory products and jointly develop advanced process technology with our manufacturing partners from our headquarters in Santa Clara, California and our design centers in Asia. 

      New SRAM products in design include wide voltage (1.8v — 3.6v) low power 2 meg, 4 meg and 8 meg asynchronous SRAMs, in addition to high speed 18 meg, 32 meg and 36 meg synchronous devices. These new synchronous SRAMs include the new industry-standard Sigma RAMs. We have several 64 meg DRAM devices under design. We are developing our new SRAM and DRAM products on industry leading 0.13, 0.15, and 0.18 micron process technologies. We are presently evaluating 0.10 micron process technology for our next generation products. In nonvolatile memory, our future products are expected to include 256K and 512K density serial EEPROM devices. Our research and development expenditures in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000 were $29.8 million, $25.3 million, and $18.3 million, respectively. 

Patents 

      As of September 30, 2002, we held 70 U.S. patents. These patents expire between 2010 and 2022. We have 14 additional patent applications pending and expect to continue to file patent applications where appropriate to protect our proprietary technologies. Although patents are an important element of our intellectual property, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on factors such as the technological skills and innovation of our personnel rather than on our patents. The process of seeking patent protection can be expensive and time consuming. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that any rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful protection or other commercial 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

advantage to us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patent rights will be upheld in the future or that we will be able to preserve any of our other intellectual property rights. 
      In the semiconductor industry, it is not unusual for companies to receive notices alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of others. We have been, and from time-to-time expect to be, notified of claims that we may be infringing patents, maskwork rights or copyrights owned by third parties. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing. Although patent holders commonly offer such licenses, licenses may not be offered and the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us. 

      The failure to obtain a license under a key patent or intellectual property right from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of the products utilizing the invention or to attempt to develop non-infringing products, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Furthermore, we may become involved in protracted litigation regarding the alleged infringement by us of third party intellectual property rights or litigation to assert and protect our patents or other intellectual property rights. Any litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources which could harm our business. 

Employees 

      As of September 30, 2002, we had approximately 172 employees in the U.S., 39 in Taiwan, 57 in the People’s Republic of China, 17 in Hong Kong, and 16 in Korea. Total employment, including subsidiaries, is approximately 301 people. On October 29, 2002, we announced a reduction that will result in approximately a 17% decrease in our U.S. workforce. Our future success will largely be dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and management personnel. The employment market for such personnel is extremely competitive and there can be no assurance that we will successfully staff all necessary positions. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreements and we have never experienced a work stoppage. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

      Our executive officers and their ages as of September 30, 2002 are as follows: 

              
Name  Age  Position 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Jimmy S.M. Lee      47     Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director  
Gary L. Fischer      51     President, Chief Operating Officer, and Director  
Michael McDonald(1)      49     Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary  
Paul Song      47     Senior Vice President, Engineering  



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  
(1)  Employment ended October 28, 2002, at which time Mr. Fischer became Chief Financial Officer, in addition to his other duties.  


Background of Executive Officers 

      Jimmy S.M. Lee has served as ISSI’s Chief Executive Officer and a director since he co-founded the Company in October 1988. He also served as ISSI’s president until May 2000. From 1985 to 1988, Mr. Lee was engineering manager at International CMOS Technology, Inc., a semiconductor company, and from 1983 to 1985, he was a design manager at Signetics Corporation, a semiconductor company. Prior thereto, Mr. Lee was a project manager at Toshiba Semiconductor Corporation and a design engineer at National Semiconductor Corporation. Mr. Lee has served as a director of ICSI since September 1990, as a director of NexFlash since October 1998, as chairman of the board of GetSilicon since July 2000, and as chairman of the board of E-CMOS since September 2001. Mr. Lee holds a M.S. degree in electrical engineering from Texas Tech University and a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from National Taiwan University. 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      Gary L. Fischer has served as ISSI’s President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2001. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 1995 to March 2001, and as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from June 1993 to March 1995. From January 1989 to December 1992, Mr. Fischer was Chief Financial Officer of Synergy Semiconductor Corporation, a manufacturer of high performance SRAM and logic integrated circuits. He has also been a director of E-CMOS since November 2001. Mr. Fischer holds an M.B.A. degree from the University of Santa Clara and a B.A. degree from the University of California, Santa Barbara. 

      Michael McDonald served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from June 2001 through October 2002. He was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary at REMEC, Inc., a manufacturer of wireless communications hardware, from 1997 to May 2001. From February 1984 to September 1997, Mr. McDonald was Chief Financial Officer at Magnum Microwave Corporation, a manufacturer of wireless communications hardware. Mr. McDonald holds an MBA degree from California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo and a B.S. degree in mathematics from the University of San Francisco. 

      Paul Song has served as Senior Vice President, Engineering since April 2000. He served as Vice President, Engineering from April 1999 to April 2000. He also served as Vice President, Design Engineering from July 1996 to April 1999. He joined ISSI in July 1990 as Director, Nonvolatile Memory Design Engineering. Previously he held design engineering positions at ICT, Exel Microelectronics, Inc. and AMD. Dr. Song holds a Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Stanford University, a M.S. degree in electrical engineering from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from National Taiwan University. 

      Officers serve at the discretion of the Board and are appointed annually. There are no family relationships between the directors or officers of ISSI. 
