Item 1. Business


     Except for the historical information contained herein, the following
discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
uncertainties. These statements relate to future events or our future financial
performance and include statements about our manufacturing capabilities and cash
flows. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology
such as "may, " "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes,"
"estimates," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of such terms
or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the
risks outlined under "Risk Factors," that may cause our or our industry's actual
results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially
different from any future results, levels or activity, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward- looking statements. Although
we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are
reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance
or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking
statements or to conform such statements to actual results.

Introduction

     Kopin Corporation ("Company") is a leading developer and manufacturer of
advanced semiconductor materials and miniature flat panel displays. We use our
proprietary technology to design, manufacture and market products used in highly
demanding wireless communications and high resolution portable consumer
electronics applications. Our products enable our customers to develop and
market an improved generation of products for these target applications.

     We produce two types of high performance components-our heterojunction
bipolar transistor wafers, or HBT transistor wafers, and our CyberDisplay
products. Our HBT transistor wafer product is a customer specific array of
vertically oriented transistors that our customers use primarily to produce high
performance integrated circuits for wireless communications products. Our
CyberDisplay products are miniature, high performance, high resolution, low cost
displays well suited for high resolution, high information content applications.
These applications include viewing images in camcorders and digital cameras, and
reading e-mail and browsing the Internet using digital wireless handsets, pagers
and other consumer electronics devices.

     We are currently experiencing rapidly increasing demand for both of our
principal products and we are significantly increasing our production capacity.
The principal customer for our HBT transistor wafers is Conexant Systems. In
addition to Conexant, original equipment manufacturers including Nortel Networks
and Hewlett-Packard purchase our HBT transistor wafers. We currently sell our
CyberDisplay product to JVC and Matsushita for use in digital camcorders and to
Mustek, a leading Taiwanese manufacturer of digital still cameras, scanners and
other consumer electronics products, for use in digital cameras.

     On December 29, 1999, we effected a 2 for 1 stock split in the form of a
100% stock dividend to all holders of our common stock. All share numbers and
prices in this Form 10-K have been adjusted to reflect the stock dividend.

Industry Overview

Gallium Arsenide Products

     Advanced semiconductor materials are used in the manufacture of integrated
circuits for high frequency, low power applications. The rapid growth in the
wireless communications industry, as well as the increasingly shorter product
cycles of wireless products, has fueled demand for these integrated circuits,
which are predominantly used in wireless handsets. Dataquest, in a report dated
September 1999, expects that by 2003 the worldwide digital wireless subscriber
base will exceed 868 million users, and annual worldwide shipments of digital
wireless handsets will reach nearly 415 million units.

     In first generation wireless handsets, integrated circuits used in high
frequency, low power applications were generally constructed with silicon-based
semiconductors. These integrated circuits, while relatively inexpensive to
manufacture, were unable to deliver the performance demanded by wireless handset
manufacturers and their customers. This



                                       1
<PAGE>

inability led to the development of gallium arsenide products for use in
wireless communications. Gallium arsenide is generally regarded as having better
performance characteristics than silicon due, in part, to its inherent physical
properties that permit gallium arsenide integrated circuits to operate at much
higher frequencies than silicon integrated circuits, or operate at the same
frequency with lower power consumption. The reduction in system power
requirements is particularly important in portable applications, such as
wireless handsets, because it extends battery life. The high performance
characteristics of gallium arsenide have led to the increased use of gallium
arsenide field effect transistors, commonly known as MESFETs, in a wide range of
commercial systems.

     Even as device manufacturers are increasingly adopting gallium arsenide
field effect transistor technology in the manufacture of high frequency
integrated circuits, the industry is calling for even greater performance.
Second generation wireless communications products use digital signal processing
and generally operate at higher cellular frequencies. Air interface standards in
these frequency bands have increased in recent years. These standards, which
include Global System Mobile, or GSM, Time Division Multiple Access, or TDMA,
and Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, provide improved capacity, sound
quality and capabilities at cellular and wireless frequency bands, but are
incompatible with each other and have fragmented the market for equipment.
Suppliers of wireless handsets have begun to offer multi-mode and multi-band
wireless handsets that allow users to switch from one high frequency band to
another to enable consumers to use wireless handsets across various territories
and different interface standards. This new generation of products is
significantly more complex than the prior generation and requires certain key
features, including:

     o    Simpler system design;

     o    Support for higher frequencies;

     o    Lower power consumption;

     o    Improved signal quality; and

     o    Wider range of operating temperatures.

Display Products

     Small form factor displays are used in the consumer electronics industry in
products such as camcorders and digital cameras. These industry segments are
expected to grow significantly over the next five years:

     o    According to a Dataquest report dated June 1999, the annual worldwide
          factory revenues for camcorders will exceed $7.2 billion by 2003; and

     o    International Data Corporation projects that annual worldwide
          shipments of digital cameras will exceed 22 million units in 2003.

     We also expect that a large market for new wireless communications devices,
including third generation wireless handsets and enhanced pagers will develop.
In order for this market to develop, advances in wireless communications systems
such as greater bandwidth and increased functionality, including real- time
wireless data and broadband Internet access, will be necessary. Small form
factor displays will be a critical component in the development of advanced
wireless communications systems, as these systems must provide high resolution
images without compromising the portability of the product. International Data
Corporation estimates that annual worldwide production of "smart hand-held
devices" which are comprised of hand-held computers/organizers, smart phones and
other devices, will exceed 35 million units by 2003, representing almost $17
billion in revenues.

     There are several display technologies currently available. The most
commonly used technology in portable applications is based on the traditional
liquid crystal display, or LCD, which is now in widespread use in products
requiring a solid state monochrome or color display. These displays form an
image by either transmitting or blocking light emitted from a source located
behind the LCD. The principal LCD technologies are passive and active matrix.



                                       2
<PAGE>

     o    Passive Matrix LCD. These displays are primarily used in calculators,
          watches, pagers and wireless handsets because of their relatively low
          cost and low power consumption. Their relatively low image quality,
          slow response time and limited viewing angle, however, make them
          inadequate for many demanding applications.

     o    Active Matrix LCD. These displays are used primarily in laptop
          computers, instrumentation and projection systems. In contrast to
          passive matrix LCDs, monochrome active matrix LCDs incorporate a
          transistor at every pixel location and color active matrix LCDs
          incorporate three transistors at every pixel location. This
          arrangement allows each pixel to be turned on and off independently
          which improves image quality and response time and also provides an
          improved side-to-side viewing angle of the display. The increased
          number of transistors required to produce those benefits, however,
          creates significant drawbacks, particularly in color applications. The
          high number of transistors used in conventional active matrix LCDs
          limits achievable pixel density and their relatively high power
          consumption makes them difficult to use in high information content
          ultra-portable electronics products.


     The high growth potential for portable communications products can be
realized effectively only if these products are able to clearly present to end
users the information they wish to access without compromising the size of the
product. These products, as well as future models of digital cameras and other
consumer electronics, require a miniature, low cost display with low power
consumption and sharp monochrome or rich, full color high resolution images. To
date, display technologies have not fully addressed these needs due to
constraints with respect to size, power consumption, resolution, cost or full
color capability.

The Kopin Solution

HBT Transistor Wafers

     We manufacture our HBT transistor wafers using our proprietary metal
organic chemical vapor deposition semiconductor growth techniques. By depositing
films of atomic-level thickness on gallium arsenide wafers, we are able to
create HBT transistor wafers that consist of a series of material layers which
form a vertical transistor. This transistor structure enables the design of
integrated circuits in which individual transistors are vertically arranged.

     The vertical structure of an HBT transistor wafer, as opposed to the
horizontal structure of a competing gallium arsenide field effect transistor,
offers advantages to an integrated circuit manufacturer:

     o    Smaller Size. We believe that integrated circuits fabricated from our
          HBT transistor wafers can be made smaller than integrated circuits
          fabricated from gallium arsenide field effect transistors. Smaller
          size enables more die per wafer, which can increase manufacturing
          yields and lead to reduced costs.

     o    Faster Circuits. We believe that our HBT transistor wafers enable the
          design of faster integrated circuits than may be designed with gallium
          arsenide field effect transistors because the effective transistor
          gate length, or the distance an electron must travel within a
          transistor, is shorter. The transistor gate length of gallium arsenide
          field effect transistors is constrained by current optical lithography
          techniques to approximately 0.2 microns for commercial volumes. We
          currently manufacture our HBT transistor wafers in commercial volumes
          with an effective transistor gate length ranging from approximately
          0.05 microns to 0.1 microns. We are able to achieve this result
          because the thickness of the vertical base layer of our HBT transistor
          wafers determines transistor gate length rather than the limitations
          of current optical lithography techniques.

     We believe that our HBT transistor wafers also offer the following
additional advantages over gallium arsenide field effect transistors:

     o    Greater Power Efficiency. Efficiency is a measure of power output as a
          percentage of battery power consumed by the device. We believe that
          our HBT transistor wafers are more efficient and use less power to
          transmit the same output power than comparable gallium arsenide field
          effect transistors. Increased efficiency can translate into improved
          battery life and increased talk time.



                                       3
<PAGE>

     o    Improved Signal Quality. Power amplifiers within wireless handsets are
          a key determinant of signal quality. We believe that power amplifiers
          based on our HBT transistor wafers can amplify signals with reduced
          distortion, providing increased signal quality. Improved signal
          quality is important for wireless networks that use digital air
          interface standards such as Time Division Multiple Access, or TDMA,
          and Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA.

     o    Less Complexity. Power amplifiers and other integrated circuits based
          on our HBT transistor wafers run on a single power supply voltage. In
          contrast, gallium arsenide field effect transistors generally require
          both a positive and negative power supply, which results in the need
          to include a negative voltage generator and other additional
          components or circuitry. As a result, we believe that integrated
          circuits using our HBT transistor wafers are easier to design, which
          can translate into reduced component costs and smaller equipment.

CyberDisplay Products

     Our principal CyberDisplay product is a miniature, 0.24 inch diagonal, high
density 320 x 240 resolution color or monochrome active matrix LCD. In contrast
to current passive matrix and active matrix LCD approaches, our CyberDisplay
products utilize high quality, single crystal silicon - the same high quality
silicon used in conventional integrated circuits. This single crystal silicon is
not grown on glass; rather, it is first formed on a silicon wafer and then
lifted off as a thin film using our proprietary technology. The thin film is
patterned into an integrated circuit (including the active matrix, driver
circuitry and other logic circuits) in an integrated circuit foundry and
transferred to glass, so that the transferred layer is a fully-functional active
matrix integrated circuit.

     Our proprietary technology enables the production of transparent circuits,
in contrast to conventional silicon circuits, which are opaque. Our CyberDisplay
products' imaging properties are a result of the formation of a liquid crystal
layer over the transparent active matrix integrated circuit. We believe that our
manufacturing process offers several advantages over conventional active matrix
LCD manufacturing approaches with regard to small form factor displays,
including:

     o    Greater miniaturization;

     o    Reduced cost;

     o    Higher pixel density;

     o    Full color capability; and

     o    Lower power consumption.

     Our use of high quality single crystal silicon in the manufacture of our
CyberDisplay products offers several performance advantages. High quality
silicon enables high speed displays which operate at 180 frames per second,
compared to 60 frames per second for most active matrix LCDs. At this higher
cycle speed, we are able to produce full color displays without using color
filters. Our color CyberDisplay products generate colors by using a backlight
composed of three light emitting diodes, commonly known as LEDs, that emit a
sequence of red, green and blue light. Each pixel either blocks or transmits the
colored light 180 times per second, which allows the generation of color images
without using three separate pixels, decreasing the size, weight, and power
requirements of the color display. Furthermore, the color pixels are not
spatially separated as in conventional active matrix LCDs, resulting in sharper
color images.

     Our CyberDisplay products have the additional advantage of being fabricated
using conventional silicon integrated circuit lithography processes. These
processes enable the manufacture of miniature active matrix circuits, resulting
in comparable or higher resolution displays relative to passive and other active
matrix displays that are fabricated on glass. Our production partner, United
Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, fabricates integrated circuits for our
CyberDisplay products in its foundry in Taiwan. The fabricated wafers are then
returned to our facilities, where we lift the integrated circuits off the
silicon wafers and transfer them to glass using our proprietary technology. The
transferred integrated circuits are then processed and packaged with liquid
crystal and assembled into display panels for shipment to customers. This
arrangement allows us to benefit from UMC's economies of scale and advanced
fabrication processes. We expect that our



                                       4
<PAGE>

CyberDisplay products will benefit from further general technological advances
in the design and production of integrated circuits and active matrix LCDs,
resulting in further improvements in resolution and miniaturization.

     Our CyberDisplay products, when illuminated by a backlight and viewed
through a lens, display high resolution video and data images equivalent to
viewing a 20 inch diagonal screen from a distance of five feet.

Strategy

     Our objective is to be the leading supplier of advanced semiconductor
materials and miniature displays that enable our customers to develop and
manufacture differentiated communications and consumer electronic devices in
high volumes. The critical elements of our strategy include:

     o    Increase Our Production Capacity in Response to Increased Demand. We
          have recently experienced increased demand in both our product lines
          and anticipate that demand will continue to increase in the future. We
          will position ourselves to add new customers through substantial
          increases in production capacity. Sufficient capacity is a key
          criteria for prospective customers in their vendor selection process.
          In July 1999, we began the expansion of our HBT production capacity
          with the installation of several additional production lines at our
          HBT transistor wafer facility, and we anticipate adding more
          production lines that should become fully operational in 2000. We also
          plan to purchase new equipment and to establish an additional facility
          to enable us to increase our HBT transistor wafer production capacity.
          We also plan to establish additional manufacturing capability for our
          CyberDisplay products to meet the demands of our customers.

     o    Increase the Number of Product Designs That Use Our Components. Our
          goal is to grow sales of our components by increasing the number and
          type of products into which they are incorporated. Both of our product
          lines are subject to long design lead-times, and we work closely with
          our customers to help them design and develop cost-effective products
          based on our HBT transistor wafer and CyberDisplay products. We use an
          aggressive pricing strategy as an inducement for manufacturers of
          consumer electronics and wireless communications products to integrate
          our CyberDisplay products into their products.

     o    Reduce CyberDisplay Production Costs. We intend to reduce our per unit
          production costs for our CyberDisplay product line. We plan to achieve
          this primarily through automation and also by investing in additional
          equipment and utilizing third party vendors in order to increase the
          volume and speed with which we manufacture our products.

     o    Maintain Our Technological Leadership. We believe that our ability to
          develop innovative products based on our extensive materials science
          expertise enhances our opportunity to grow within our targeted
          markets. By continuing to invest in research and development, we are
          able to add to our expertise in the design of HBT transistor wafers
          and innovative, high-resolution, miniature flat panel displays. We
          intend to continue to focus our development efforts on our proprietary
          HBT transistor wafers and miniature displays.

     o    Leverage Integrated Circuit and Display Technologies and
          Infrastructure. We will continue to leverage our use of standard
          integrated circuit fabrication and LCD packaging technologies to
          achieve greater production capacity and to reduce capital investment
          and process development costs. Our use of these technologies allows us
          to engage third party manufacturers for certain fabrication and
          packaging of our CyberDisplay products and to rapidly take advantage
          of new technologies, cost- efficiencies and increased production
          capabilities of these third party manufacturers. We believe that
          general technological advances in the design and fabrication of
          integrated circuits, LCD technology and LCD manufacturing processes
          will allow us to continue to enhance our CyberDisplay product
          manufacturing process.

Markets and Customers

HBT Transistor Wafers

     We develop and manufacture customer and application specific HBT transistor
wafers for advanced integrated circuit applications. We believe that we are one
of the world's leading suppliers of HBT transistor wafers and currently



                                       5
<PAGE>

support volume production of three-inch and four-inch HBT transistor wafers. In
addition, we have begun to provide initial quantities of six-inch HBT transistor
wafers to several of our customers. Our primary HBT transistor wafer product is
based on an aluminum gallium arsenide vertical layer structure. We also supply
customers with HBT transistor wafers based on an indium gallium phosphide
vertical layer structure. We vary our manufacturing process to create customized
HBT transistor wafer products for customers. For the years ended December 31,
1997, 1998, 1999, sales of gallium arsenide products constituted 92%, 87% and
87% of our product revenues, respectively.

     Using our HBT transistor wafers, our customers have developed gallium
arsenide power amplifiers for wireless handsets. At present, our HBT transistor
wafers have been used predominantly in Code Division Multiple Access power
amplifiers, but we believe that our HBT transistor wafers can be used in, and
provide the same benefits to, the Global System Mobile, Time Division Multiple
Access and third generation wireless handset standards. In those countries where
one uniform standard has not yet been adopted, the diversity of standards
requires equipment capable of operating in dual modes and bands. This equipment
is likely to require higher performance semiconductor technology such as our HBT
transistor wafers.

     In addition to wireless handset power amplifiers, our HBT transistor wafers
are also being used in the fabrication of integrated circuits for other
applications. In particular, our HBT transistor wafers are also used in high
speed fiber optic switching equipment used in broadband Internet data
transmission and high speed instrumentation.

     We design our HBT transistor wafers in collaboration with our customers'
engineering teams in order to create customized products that meet their
specific application needs. Once our HBT transistor wafers have been "designed
in" a customer's product, we believe that it would be costly and difficult for
that customer to switch to an alternate supplier. Our largest customer for our
HBT transistor wafers is Conexant, with which we have collaborated on the
manufacturing and development of our HBT transistor wafers and related
integrated circuits for several years. Other customers of our gallium arsenide
products include Hewlett-Packard, Mitsubishi Electric, Nortel Networks, Northrop
Grumman, Raytheon, and Siemens. For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1998 and
1999, sales of gallium arsenide products to Conexant constituted 63%, 59% and
49% of our total revenues, respectively.

CyberDisplay Products

     We currently sell our CyberDisplay products to customers either as a single
component or together with a lens and backlight as a unit. We provide our
CyberDisplay products to JVC and Matsushita for use in digital camcorders and to
Mustek for use in digital cameras. In addition, we are actively working with
numerous other customers to develop additional and new applications for our
CyberDisplay products.

     In order for our CyberDisplay products to function properly in their
intended applications, integrated circuit chip sets generally are required.
Several companies have designed integrated circuit chip sets to work with our
CyberDisplay products. Motorola has designed the integrated circuit chip set
currently used with our CyberDisplay product in camcorders. Motorola and other
companies are designing other integrated circuit chip sets based on our
CyberDisplay products for use in camcorders and other consumer electronics
products.

Sales and Marketing

     We principally sell our HBT transistor wafer products directly to
integrated circuit manufacturers in the United States, Europe and Asia. We sell
our CyberDisplay products directly to original equipment manufacturers and co-
market our CyberDisplay products with Motorola on a worldwide basis under the
terms of an agreement with Motorola. Sales of our HBT transistor wafers and our
CyberDisplay products to customers in Japan are made primarily through a foreign
distributor.

     We believe that the technical nature of our products and markets demands a
commitment to close relationships with our customers. Our sales and marketing
staff, assisted by the technical staff and senior management, visits prospective
and existing customers worldwide on a regular basis. We believe that these
contacts are vital to the development of a close, long-term working relationship
with our customers, and in obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and
information regarding technical and market trends. We also participate in
industry specific trade shows and conferences.



                                       6
<PAGE>

     Our design and engineering staff is actively involved with a customer
during all phases of prototype design and production by providing engineering
data, up-to-date product application notes, regular follow-up and technical
assistance. In most cases, our technical staff works with each customer in the
development stage to identify potential improvements to the design of the
customer's product in parallel with the customer's effort. We have established a
prototype product design group in Los Gatos, California to assist our
CyberDisplay customers to incorporate our products into their own and to reduce
the time required to bring end products to the marketplace. This group helps
customers accelerate their design process, achieve cost-effective and
manufacturable designs, and ensure a smooth transition into high volume
production.

Product Development

     We believe that continued introduction of new products in our target
markets is essential to our growth. We have assembled a group of highly skilled
engineers that work internally as well as with our customers to continue our
product development efforts. For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1998 and
1999, we incurred total research and development expenses of $10.4 million, $9.6
million and $7.1 million, respectively. Research and development expenses
related to our internal development programs for our HBT transistor wafers and
CyberDisplay products were $7.6 million, $5.7 million and $4.3 million,
respectively, for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1998 and 1999. Although
research and development expenses have declined as we have shifted from initial
product development to application specific engineering, we expect that these
expenses will increase in the future.

Gallium Arsenide Products

     We intend to continue developing HBT transistor wafers and other gallium
arsenide products for advanced integrated circuit applications from other
compound materials. We are working closely with several of our major customers
in the development of the next generation of HBT transistor wafers, primarily by
modifying the composition and nature of the vertical transistor structure. In
particular, we have developed extensive technology and expertise in the use of
indium gallium phosphide as a vertical transistor structure. We believe that
indium gallium phosphide HBT transistor wafers are simpler to process than our
gallium arsenide HBT transistor wafers and result in greater yields for certain
products made by our customers. In 1998, we began commercial shipments of HBT
transistor wafers using indium gallium phosphide.

     We are currently manufacturing HBT transistor wafers with a base layer
thickness ranging from approximately 0.05 microns to 0.1 microns, and we are
developing manufacturing processes to further reduce this thickness. In
addition, we are developing manufacturing processes for production of six-inch
HBT transistor wafers and are currently providing initial quantities of these
wafers to several of our customers.

CyberDisplay Products

     Our product development efforts are focused towards continually enhancing
the features, functions and manufacturability of our CyberDisplay products. A
principal focus of this effort is the improvement of manufacturing processes for
very small active matrix pixels, which we will use in succeeding generations of
our CyberDisplay products. The pixel size of our current CyberDisplay products
is 15 microns and we believe that we can achieve a pixel size of less than 10
microns in commercial production. This pixel size is in contrast to a pixel size
of approximately 100 microns in a typical laptop computer display. The
resolution of the current commercially available CyberDisplay product is 320 x
240. We have already demonstrated and are providing our customers with samples
of 640 x 480 resolution CyberDisplay products in a 0.38 inch diagonal display.
In addition, we have demonstrated 1,280 x 1,024 resolution CyberDisplay products
in a 0.96 inch diagonal display, as well as 2,560 x 2,048 resolution
CyberDisplay products in a 1.5 inch diagonal display and we are working on the
commercialization of these products. We are also working on further decreasing
the already low power consumption of our CyberDisplay products. Additional
display development efforts include further automating our final display
assembly processes and increasing the quantity of CyberDisplay active matrix
pixel arrays processed on each transistor by further reducing the display size
and using increasingly precise manufacturing techniques.

Funded Research and Development

     We have entered into various development contracts with agencies of the
U.S. government. These contracts help support the continued development of our
core technologies. We intend to continue to pursue other U.S. government



                                       7
<PAGE>

development contracts for applications that relate to our commercial product
applications. Our contracts with U.S. government agencies contain certain
milestones relating to technology development and may be terminated by the
government agencies prior to completion of funding. Our policy is to retain our
proprietary rights with respect to the principal commercial applications of our
technology. To the extent technology development has been funded by a U.S.
federal agency, under applicable U.S. federal laws, the federal agency has the
right to obtain a non- exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, fully-paid
license to practice or have practiced this technology for governmental use.
Revenues attributable to research and development contracts for the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1998 and 1999 totaled $3.3 million, $3.7 million, and $2.5
million, respectively.


Competition

Gallium Arsenide Products

     With respect to our HBT transistor wafers, we presently compete with
several companies, including Epitronics, Emcore and Hitachi Cable, as well as
integrated circuit manufacturers with in-house transistor growth capabilities,
such as TRW, RF Micro Devices, and Fujitsu. We believe that TRW and RF Micro
Devices are the only other companies currently producing HBT transistor wafers
in commercial quantities, however, we believe they currently produce these
transistor wafers solely for use by RF Micro Devices. In the gallium arsenide
HBT transistor wafer market, competition could become increasingly intense as
new entrants emerge. The production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits has
been and continues to be more costly than the production of silicon integrated
circuits. Although we have reduced production costs of our HBT transistor wafers
by achieving higher volumes, we cannot assure you that we will be able to
continue to decrease production costs. In addition, we believe the costs of
producing gallium arsenide integrated circuits by our customers will continue to
exceed the costs associated with the production of competing silicon integrated
circuits. As a result, we must target markets where these higher costs are
justified by their superior performance. Competition in the display field is
based on price and performance characteristics, product quality and the ability
to deliver products in a timely fashion.

CyberDisplay Products

     The display market is highly competitive and is currently dominated by
large Asian electronics companies including Sharp, Hitachi, Seiko, Toshiba,
Sony, NEC, Sanyo and Display Technologies, a joint venture of IBM and Toshiba.
The display market consists of multiple segments, each focusing on different
end- user applications applying different technologies. Competition in the
display field is based on price and performance characteristics, product quality
and the ability to deliver products in a timely fashion. The success of our
display product offerings will also depend upon the adoption of our CyberDisplay
products in the industry as an alternative to traditional active matrix LCDs and
upon our ability to compete against other types of well-established display
products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete against these
companies and technologies.

     There are also a number of active matrix LCD and alternative display
technologies in development and production. These technologies include LED,
reflective, field emission display, plasma, organic light emitting diode and
virtual retinal displays, some of which target the high performance small form
factor display markets in which our display products are sold. There are many
large and small companies that manufacture or have in development products based
on these technologies. Our CyberDisplay products will compete with other
displays utilizing these and other competing display technologies.

Patents, Proprietary Rights and Licenses

     An important part of our product development strategy is to seek, when
appropriate, protection for our products and proprietary technology through the
use of various United States and foreign patents and contractual arrangements.
We intend to prosecute and defend our proprietary technology aggressively. We
own more than 60 issued United States patents and more than 40 pending United
States patent applications. Many of these United States patents and applications
have counterpart foreign patents, foreign applications or international
applications through the Patent Cooperation Treaty. In addition, we are licensed
by MIT under more than 20 issued United States patents, more than 4 pending
United States patent applications, and some foreign counterparts to these United
States patents and applications. Our United States patents expire



                                       8
<PAGE>

at various dates through July 2016. The United States patents licensed to us by
MIT expire during the period running at various dates through March 2016.

     In 1985, we obtained a license from MIT to certain patents and patent
applications directed to device wafers and related technology. The license
grants to Kopin a worldwide license to make, have made, use, and sell products
covered by the licensed patents for the life of these patents. The license was
exclusive with respect to commercial applications until April 22, 1999, and
became non-exclusive at that time. In 1995, we obtained an additional license
from MIT to certain optical technology. The license grants to Kopin a worldwide
license to make, have made, use, lease and sell products covered by the licensed
patents until 2007.

     The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and
expensive and we cannot assure you that patents will issue from currently
pending or future applications or that our existing patents or any new patents
that may be issued will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful
protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to or may
initiate interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark
Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. Patent
applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents issue
and since publication of discoveries in the scientific and patent literature
lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to
conceive of inventions covered by pending patent applications or the first to
file patent applications on such inventions. We cannot assure you that our
pending patent applications or those of our licensors will result in issued
patents or that any issued patents will afford protection against a competitor.
In addition, we can not assure you that others will not obtain patents that we
would need to license, circumvent or cease manufacturing and sales of products
covered by these patents, nor can we be sure that licenses, if needed, would be
available to the us on favorable terms, if at all.

     We cannot assure you that foreign intellectual property laws will protect
our intellectual property rights or that others will not independently develop
similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to
Kopin. Our products might infringe the patent rights of others, whether existing
now or in the future. For the same reasons, the products of others could
infringe our patent rights. Although we are not aware of any pending or
threatened patent litigation against us, we may be notified, from time to time,
that we could be or we are infringing certain patents and other intellectual
property rights of others. Litigation, which could be very costly or lead to
substantial diversion of our resources even if the outcome is favorable, may be
necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to
defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. These problems
can be particularly severe in foreign countries. In the event of an adverse
ruling in litigation against Kopin for patent infringement, we might be required
to discontinue the use of certain processes, cease the manufacture, use and sale
of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing
technology or obtain licenses to patents of third parties covering the
infringing technology. We cannot assure you that licenses will be obtainable on
acceptable terms, or at all, or that damages for infringement will not be
assessed or that litigation will not occur. The failure to obtain necessary
licenses or other rights or litigation arising out of any such claims could
adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as we propose to conduct
it.

     We also attempt to protect our proprietary information with contractual
arrangements and under trade secret laws. We believe that our future success
will depend primarily upon the technical expertise, creative skills and
management abilities of our officers and key employees rather than on patent
ownership. Kopin employees and consultants generally enter into agreements
containing provisions with respect to confidentiality and the assignment of
rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. Agreements with
consultants generally provide that rights to inventions made by them while
consulting for Kopin will be assigned to us unless the assignment of rights is
prohibited by the terms of any agreements with their regular employers.
Agreements with employees, consultants and collaborators contain provisions
intended to further protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information.
To date, we have had no experience in enforcing these agreements. We cannot
assure you that these agreements will not be breached or that we would have
adequate remedies for any breaches. Our trade secrets may not be secure from
discovery or independent development by competitors.

Government Regulations

     We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental
regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic,
volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process.
Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable
environmental regulations, the failure to comply with present or future
regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production
or a cessation of operations. Any failure on



                                       9
<PAGE>

our part to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of,
hazardous substances, or otherwise comply with environmental regulations, could
subject us to significant future liabilities. In addition, although we believe
that our past operations conformed with then applicable environmental laws and
regulations, we cannot assure you that we have not in the past violated
applicable laws or regulations, which violations could result in remediation or
other liabilities. We also cannot assure you that past use or disposal of
environmentally sensitive materials in conformity with then existing
environmental laws and regulations will protect us from required remediation or
other liabilities under current or future environmental laws or regulations.

Investments in Related Businesses

     We have made equity investments in other companies including Kowon
Technology, a manufacturer of optoelectronic products located in South Korea and
Kendin Communications, a developer and manufacturer of silicon integrated
circuits for high speed data and network communications.

     In 1998 we made a $2.0 million investment in Kowon for which we received a
65% equity interest. We consolidated the financial statements of Kowon with our
financial statements beginning in the second quarter of 1998. Kowon's results of
operations are principally denominated in the South Korean won and are subject
to exchange rate fluctuations. On December 31, 1999, our investment in Kendin
totaled approximately $2,580,000, representing approximately 17% of the
outstanding equity of the company. Kendin is a privately held company. Our
investment in Kendin is carried on our balance sheet at cost. We may from time
to time make further equity investments in Kendin and other companies engaged in
certain aspects of the display and electronics industries as part of our
business strategy. These investments may not provide us with any financial
return or other benefit and any losses by these companies or associated losses
in our investments may negatively impact our operating results.

Employees

     As of December 31, 1999, we and our subsidiaries employed 262 full-time and
9 part-time individuals. Of these, 15 hold Ph.D. degrees in Material Science,
Electrical Engineering or Physics. Our management and professional employees
have significant prior experience in semiconductor materials, device transistor
and display processing, manufacturing and other related technologies. None of
our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider
relations with our employees to be good.