Item 1.    Business 

 

Except for the historical information contained herein, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate, management’s beliefs, and assumptions made by management. In addition, other written or oral statements which constitute forward-looking statements may be made by or on behalf of us. Words such as “expects”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “plans”, “believes”, “could”, “seeks”, “estimates”, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in outcomes and results, include, but are not limited to, those discussed below under “Risk Factors.” 

 

Introduction 

 

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1984 and are a leading developer and manufacturer of III-V products and miniature flat panel displays. We use our proprietary semiconductor material technology to design, manufacture and market our III-V and display products. Our products enable our customers to develop and market an improved generation of products for applications in wireless and consumer electronic products. 

 

We commercially develop and manufacture Gallium Arsenide-based HBT transistor wafers and other commercial semiconductor products that use Indium Phosphide, Gallium Nitride, and Gallium Arsenide-based substrates. We have also been developing light emitting diodes (LEDs) grown on sapphire substrates which are called CyberLites™. We collectively refer to our products based on compound semiconductor materials as our “III-V” products because we use elements found on the III and V columns of the periodic table of elements. Our primary III-V product is our heterojunction bipolar transistor wafers, or HBT transistor wafers. Our HBT transistor wafers are customer-specific arrays of vertically oriented transistors that our customers use primarily to produce high performance integrated circuits for wireless communications products. In 2002, Conexant Systems, our principal customer for our HBT transistor wafers, merged its wireless division with Alpha Industries, another of our customers, to create Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (Skyworks Solutions). On a pro forma basis, assuming the merger occurred on January 1, 2000, sales of our HBT transistor wafers to Skyworks Solutions would have accounted for approximately 26%, 24%, and 46% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. In addition to Skyworks Solutions, original equipment manufacturers including ANADIGICS, Triquint Semiconductor and Toshiba purchase our HBT transistor wafers. 

 

Our CyberDisplay products are miniature, high performance, high resolution, low cost displays designed for consumer electronics and next generation mobile communications devices. Current applications of our CyberDisplay products include viewing images in camcorders and digital cameras, and we believe that our CyberDisplay products are well suited for new applications such as reading e-mail and browsing the Internet using digital wireless devices and other consumer electronics devices. We currently sell our CyberDisplay product to Victor Company of Japan Ltd. (JVC), Matsushita Electrical Industrial Co., Ltd. (Panasonic) and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (Samsung) for use in digital camcorders. For the year ended December 31, 2002 Samsung, JVC and Panasonic accounted for 26%, 15%, and 13% of our total revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2001 sales to Samsung and Panasonic accounted for 22% and 15%, respectively, of our total revenues. 

 

On December 29, 1999, we effected a 2 for 1 stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend to all holders of our common stock. On July 12, 2000, we effected another 2 for 1 stock split in the form of a 100% stock 

 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

dividend to all holders of our common stock. All share numbers and prices in this Form 10-K have been adjusted to reflect these stock dividends. 

 

Industry Overview 

 

III-V Products 

 

Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors 

 

Advanced semiconductor materials are used in the manufacture of integrated circuits for high frequency, low power applications. The rapid growth in the wireless communications industry, as well as the increasingly shorter product cycles of wireless products, has fueled demand for these integrated circuits, which are predominantly used in wireless handsets. 

 

In first generation wireless handsets, integrated circuits used in high frequency, low power applications were generally constructed with silicon-based semiconductors. These integrated circuits, while relatively inexpensive to manufacture, were unable to deliver the ever increasing performance demanded by wireless handset manufacturers and their customers. This inability led to the development of gallium arsenide products for use in wireless communications. Gallium arsenide is generally regarded as having better performance characteristics than silicon due, in part, to its inherent physical properties that permit gallium arsenide integrated circuits to operate at much higher frequencies than silicon integrated circuits, or operate at the same frequency with lower power consumption. The reduction in system power requirements is particularly important in portable applications, such as wireless handsets, because it extends battery life. The high performance characteristics of gallium arsenide have led to the increased use of gallium arsenide field effect transistors, commonly known as MESFETs, in a wide range of commercial systems. 

 

Even as device manufacturers are increasingly adopting gallium arsenide field effect transistor technology in the manufacture of high frequency integrated circuits, the industry is calling for even greater performance. Second generation wireless communications products use digital signal processing and generally operate at higher cellular frequencies. Air interface standards in these frequency bands have increased in recent years. These standards, which include Global System Mobile, or GSM, Time Division Multiple Access, or TDMA, and Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, provide improved capacity, sound quality and capabilities at cellular and wireless frequency bands, but are incompatible with each other and have fragmented the market for equipment. Suppliers of wireless handsets now offer multi-mode and multi-band wireless handsets that allow users to switch from one high frequency band to another to enable consumers to use wireless handsets across various territories and different interface standards. This new generation of products is significantly more complex than the prior generation and requires certain key features, including: 

 

  •   Simpler system design;  

 

  •   Support for higher frequencies;  

 

  •   Lower power consumption;  

 

  •   Improved signal quality; and  

 

  •   Wider range of operating temperatures.  

 

CyberLites™ 

 

The first commercial LEDs were introduced in the 1960’s using gallium arsenide on gallium arsenide substrates. In the late 1970’s and early 1980’s aluminum gallium arsenide on gallium arsenide substrate LEDs were developed for infrared applications such as remote controls. In the mid 1980’s a red LED with twice the efficiency of previous LEDs was created by developing a double heterostructure alluminum gallium arsenide on gallium arsenide substrate. Efficiency is a measure of the amount of power required to produce a given brightness and is measured in terms of luminous efficacy. 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

In the late 1980’s as a result of further growth technique developments and the addition of a reflector to collect light from the back of the LED chip the efficiency of LEDs again doubled and high brightness LEDs (HBLEDs) were introduced. The late 1980’s also saw the introduction of blue LEDs based on silicon carbide substrates. 

 

In the early 1990’s, blue LEDs made from gallium nitride on sapphire substrates were introduced. Since the introduction of blue LEDs considerable advancements have taken place including the use of a single-quantum well structure in place of the double heterostructure. 

 

In the mid 1990’s pure green LEDs were introduced. This was an important development as the full spectrum of colors using red, green and blue (RGB) was superior to that available from cathode ray tubes (CRTs) using phosphors. The availability of the full spectrum of colors from LEDs allowed for the development of full-color LED displays and signs, including those suitable for outdoor use. The applications using LEDs continue to grow as their efficiency improves, brightness increases and their selling prices decline. 

 

CyberDisplay™ Products 

 

Small form factor displays are used in the consumer electronics industry in products such as camcorders and digital cameras. We also expect that a significant market for new wireless communications devices, including third generation wireless devices, will develop. In order for this market to develop, advances in wireless communications systems such as greater bandwidth and increased functionality, including real-time wireless data and broadband Internet access, will be necessary. Small form factor displays are expected to be a critical component in the development of advanced wireless communications systems, as these systems must provide high resolution images without compromising the portability of the product. 

 

There are several display technologies currently available. The most commonly used technology in portable applications is based on the traditional liquid crystal display, or LCD, which is now in widespread use in products requiring a solid state monochrome or color display. These displays form an image by either transmitting or blocking light emitted from a source located behind the LCD. The principal LCD technologies are passive and active matrix. 

 

  •   Passive Matrix LCD.    These displays are primarily used in calculators, watches, pagers and wireless handsets because of their relatively low cost and low power consumption. Their relatively low image quality, slow response time and limited viewing angle, however, make them inadequate for many demanding applications.  

 

  •   Active Matrix LCD.    These displays are used primarily in laptop computers, instrumentation and projection systems. In contrast to passive matrix LCDs, monochrome active matrix LCDs incorporate a transistor at every pixel location and color active matrix LCDs incorporate three transistors at every pixel location. This arrangement allows each pixel to be turned on and off independently which improves image quality and response time and also provides an improved side-to-side viewing angle of the display. The increased number of transistors required to produce those benefits, however, creates significant drawbacks, particularly in color applications. The high number of transistors used in conventional active matrix LCDs limits achievable pixel density and their relatively high power consumption makes them difficult to use in high information content ultra-portable electronics products.  

 

The high growth potential for portable communications products can be realized effectively only if these products are able to clearly present to end users the information they wish to access without compromising the size of the product. These products, as well as future models of digital cameras and other consumer electronics, are well suited for the use of a miniature, low cost display with low power consumption and sharp monochrome or rich, full color high resolution images. To date, display technologies have not fully addressed these needs due to constraints with respect to size, power consumption, resolution, cost or full color capability. 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Our Solution 

 

III-V Products 

 

Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors 

 

We manufacture our HBT transistor wafers using our proprietary metal organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) semiconductor growth techniques and our Wafer Engineering™ process. Our Wafer Engineering™ process significantly reduces the number of defects which naturally occur when different semiconductor materials are combined. By depositing films of atomic-level thickness on gallium arsenide or indium phosphide wafers, we are able to create HBT transistor wafers that consist of a series of material layers which form a vertical transistor. This transistor structure enables the design of integrated circuits in which individual transistors are vertically arranged. 

 

The vertical structure of an HBT transistor wafer, as opposed to the horizontal structure of a competing gallium arsenide field effect transistor, offers advantages to an integrated circuit manufacturer: 

 

  •   Smaller Size.    We believe integrated circuits fabricated from our HBT transistor wafers can be made smaller than integrated circuits fabricated from gallium arsenide field effect transistors. Smaller size enables more die per wafer, which can increase manufacturing yields and lead to reduced costs.  

 

  •   Faster Circuits.    We believe our HBT transistor wafers enable the design of faster integrated circuits than may be designed with gallium arsenide field effect transistors because the effective transistor gate length, or the distance an electron must travel within a transistor, is shorter. The transistor gate length of gallium arsenide field effect transistors is constrained by current optical lithography techniques to approximately 0.13 microns for commercial volumes. We currently manufacture our HBT transistor wafers in commercial volumes with an effective transistor gate length ranging from approximately 0.05 microns to 0.1 microns. We are able to achieve this result because the thickness of the vertical base layer of our HBT transistor wafers determines transistor gate length rather than the limitations of current optical lithography techniques.  

 

We believe our HBT transistor wafers also offer the following additional advantages over gallium arsenide field effect transistors: 

 

  •   Greater Power Efficiency.    Efficiency is a measure of power output as a percentage of battery power consumed by the device. We believe our HBT transistor wafers are more efficient and use less power to transmit the same output power than comparable gallium arsenide field effect transistors. Increased efficiency can translate into improved battery life and increased talk time.  

 

  •   Improved Signal Quality.    Power amplifiers within wireless handsets are a key determinant of signal quality. We believe that power amplifiers based on our HBT transistor wafers can amplify signals with reduced distortion, providing increased signal quality. Improved signal quality is important for wireless networks that use digital air interface standards such as Time Division Multiple Access, or TDMA, and Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA.  

 

  •   Less Complexity.    Power amplifiers and other integrated circuits based on our HBT transistor wafers run on a single power supply voltage. In contrast, gallium arsenide field effect transistors generally require both a positive and negative power supply, which results in the need to include a negative voltage generator and other additional components or circuitry. As a result, we believe integrated circuits using our HBT transistor wafers are easier to design, which can translate into reduced component costs and smaller equipment.  

 

CyberLites™ 

 

We have been developing a LED which is created by depositing gallium nitride compounds grown on aluminum oxide (sapphire) substrates by similar OMCVD, Wafer Engineering™ and quality control processes 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

used to produce Kopin’s HBT transistor wafers. We are therefore able to leverage off of our existing infrastructure and know how. To create our CyberLite LED we refined the process to take advantage of the area between the defects, which we call NanoPockets™. Our NanoPocket™ technology enables us to produce blue LEDs as bright as those commercially available but which can be operated at lower voltages. The lower voltage requirement of our LEDs offers advantages for portable products which rely on batteries for a power source. 

 

Conventional LEDs contain active indium gallium nitride layers of uniform thickness, whereas nanostructured LEDs contain active layers with a periodic thickness variation. This periodic thickness variation creates NanoPockets™ whose dimensions range from 50 to 100 nanometers and thickness from one to two nanometers. The active carriers are confined in these nanopockets where radiative recombination of electrons and holes result in efficient light emission. The carriers in the nanopockets do not encounter defects such as dislocations which act as nonradiative recombination centers and annihilate them. 

 

CyberDisplay™ Products 

 

Our principal CyberDisplay product is a miniature, 0.24 inch diagonal, high density 320 x 240 resolution color or monochrome active matrix LCD. In contrast to current passive matrix and active matrix LCD approaches, our CyberDisplay products utilize high quality, single crystal silicon—the same high quality silicon used in conventional integrated circuits. This single crystal silicon is not grown on glass; rather, it is first formed on a silicon wafer and then lifted off as a thin film using our proprietary Wafer Engineering™ technology. The thin film is patterned into an integrated circuit (including the active matrix, driver circuitry and other logic circuits) in an integrated circuit foundry and transferred to glass, so that the transferred layer is a fully functional active matrix integrated circuit. 

 

Our proprietary technology enables the production of transparent circuits, in contrast to conventional silicon circuits, which are opaque. Our CyberDisplay products’ imaging properties are a result of the formation of a liquid crystal layer over the transparent active matrix integrated circuit. We believe our manufacturing process offers several advantages over conventional active matrix LCD manufacturing approaches with regard to small form factor displays, including: 

 

  •   Greater miniaturization;  

 

  •   Reduced cost;  

 

  •   Higher pixel density;  

 

  •   Full color capability; and  

 

  •   Lower power consumption.  

 

Our use of high quality single crystal silicon in the manufacture of our CyberDisplay products offers several performance advantages. High quality silicon enables high speed displays which operate up to 240 frames per second, compared to 60 frames per second for most active matrix LCDs. At this higher cycle speed we are able to produce full color displays without using color filters. Our color CyberDisplay products generate colors by using either color sequential technology whereby a backlight composed of three light emitting diodes, commonly known as LEDs, emit a sequence of red, green and blue light or using color filters with a white backlight. In color sequential technology each pixel either blocks or transmits the colored light 180 times per second, which allows the generation of color images without using three separate pixels, decreasing the size, weight, and power requirements of the color display. Furthermore, the color pixels are not spatially separated as in conventional active matrix LCDs, resulting in sharper color images. Color filter technology is a process in which display pixels are patterned with materials which selectively absorb or transmit the red, green or blue colors of light. 

 

Our CyberDisplay products have the additional advantage of being fabricated using conventional silicon integrated circuit lithography processes. These processes enable the manufacture of miniature active matrix circuits, resulting in comparable or higher resolution displays relative to passive and other active matrix displays that are fabricated on glass. Our production partner, United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, fabricates 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

integrated circuits for our CyberDisplay products in its foundry in Taiwan. The fabricated wafers are then returned to our facilities, where we lift the integrated circuits off the silicon wafers and transfer them to glass using our proprietary technology. The transferred integrated circuits are then processed and packaged with liquid crystal and assembled into display panels at either our Westborough, Massachusetts facility or at our Korean subsidiary, Kowon Technology Co., Ltd. (Kowon) and shipped to customers. This arrangement allows us to benefit from UMC’s economies of scale and advanced fabrication processes. We expect our CyberDisplay products will benefit from further general technological advances in the design and production of integrated circuits and active matrix LCDs, resulting in further improvements in resolution and miniaturization. 

 

Strategy 

 

Our objective is to be the leading supplier of advanced semiconductor materials and miniature displays that enable our customers to develop and manufacture differentiated communications and consumer electronic devices in high volumes. The critical elements of our strategy include: 

 

  •   Increase the Number of Product Designs That Use Our Components.    Our goal is to grow sales of our components by increasing the number and type of products into which they are incorporated. Our product lines are subject to long design lead-times and we work closely with our customers to help them design and develop cost-effective products based on our III-V and CyberDisplay products. We use an aggressive pricing strategy as an inducement for manufacturers of consumer electronics and wireless communications products to integrate our products into their products.  

 

  •   Reduce Production Costs.    We intend to reduce our per unit production costs primarily through increasing manufacturing yield and by lowering fixed costs per unit through increased sales volume.  

 

  •   Maintain Our Technological Leadership.    We believe our ability to develop innovative products based on our extensive materials science expertise enhances our opportunity to grow within our targeted markets. By continuing to invest in research and development, we are able to add to our expertise in the design of HBT transistor wafers, CyberLite LEDs and innovative, high-resolution, miniature flat panel displays. We intend to continue to focus our development efforts on our proprietary HBT transistor wafers, CyberLite LEDs and miniature displays.  

 

  •   Leverage Integrated Circuit and Display Technologies and Infrastructure.    We will continue to leverage our use of standard integrated circuit fabrication and LCD packaging technologies to achieve greater production capacity and to reduce capital investment and process development costs. Our use of these technologies allows us to engage third party manufacturers for certain fabrication of our CyberDisplay products and to take advantage of new technologies, cost-efficiencies and increased production capabilities of these third party manufacturers. We believe that general technological advances in the design and fabrication of integrated circuits, LCD technology and LCD manufacturing processes will allow us to continue to enhance our CyberDisplay product manufacturing process.  

 

Markets and Customers 

 

III-V Products 

 

Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors 

 

We develop and manufacture customer and application specific HBT transistor wafers for advanced integrated circuit applications. We believe we are one of the world’s leading suppliers of HBT transistor wafers and currently support volume production of three-inch, four-inch and six-inch HBT transistor wafers. Our primary HBT transistor wafer product is based on an aluminum gallium arsenide vertical layer structure. We also supply customers with HBT transistor wafers based on an indium gallium phosphide vertical layer structure. We vary our manufacturing process to create customized HBT transistor wafer products for customers. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, sales of III-V products accounted for 43%, 55% and 78% of our revenues, respectively. 

 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Using our HBT transistor wafers, our customers have developed gallium arsenide power amplifiers for wireless handsets. Our HBT transistor wafers are used in Code Division Multiple Access, Global System Mobile and Time Division Multiple Access power amplifiers, but we believe our HBT transistor wafers can be used in, and provide the same benefits to, third generation wireless handset standards. In those countries where one uniform standard has not yet been adopted, the diversity of standards requires equipment capable of operating in multiple modes and bands. This equipment is likely to require higher performance semiconductor technology such as our HBT transistor wafers. 

 

In addition to wireless handset power amplifiers, our HBT transistor wafers are also being used in the fabrication of integrated circuits for other applications. In particular, our HBT transistor wafers are also used in high speed fiber optic switching equipment used in broadband Internet data transmission wireless local area network chipsets (WLAN) and high speed instrumentation. Since 2001 there has been a significant decline in sales of our III-V products into the high speed fiber optic switching equipment market. This equipment has historically been used for the long haul fiber optic networks which analysts believe have significant over- capacity. Accordingly, we do not believe sales into this market will be significant in the year ending December 31, 2003. 

 

We design our HBT transistor wafers in collaboration with our customers’ engineering teams in order to create customized products that meet their specific application needs. Once our HBT transistor wafers have been “designed in” a customer’s product, we believe it would be costly for that customer to switch to an alternate supplier. In 2002, Conexant Systems merged its wireless division with Alpha Industries to create Skyworks Solutions, Inc., our largest customer for our HBT transistor wafers. Other customers of our gallium arsenide products include Toshiba, ANADIGICS, Mitsubishi Electric Co., Ltd., Triquint, and Siemens. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, sales of gallium arsenide products to newly created Skyworks Solutions on a pro forma basis, assuming the merger occurred on January 1, 2000, would have accounted for approximately 26%, 24% and 46% of our total revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2000, sales of gallium arsenide products to Mitsubishi Electric Co., Ltd. were 11% of our total revenues. We anticipate that sales of our HBT transistor wafers to Skyworks Solutions will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues for the near future. 

 

CyberLites™ 

 

We are initially targeting our CyberLite LEDs at mobile applications, such as wireless devices, which are battery operated and therefore require low power components. Future markets include backlighting for automotive dashboards and other consumer products, indoor and outdoor full color displays, traffic signals and other indicator lights for consumer and industrial applications. 

 

Longer term opportunities include solid state lighting (SSL). SSL based upon LEDs offers an entirely new lighting paradigm, compared to existing incandescent lighting. SSL efficiency is expected to reach 200 lumens per watt compared to incandescent lighting whose efficiency is approximately 20 lumens per watt. SSL lighting turns on instantaneously and maintains color when dimmed. The color is dynamically adjustable and LEDs can be integrated with silicon microelectronic devices creating smart lights. The power consumption of SSL is expected to be an order of magnitude lower than incandescent lighting with a life expectancy over 20 years. 

 

Customers for LEDs are located throughout the world with Asia being the largest market. 

 

CyberDisplay™ Products 

 

We currently sell our CyberDisplay products to customers either as a single component or together with a lens and backlight as a unit. We provide our CyberDisplay products to JVC, Panasonic and Samsung for use in 

 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

digital camcorders. In addition, we are actively working with numerous other customers to develop additional and new applications for our CyberDisplay products. 

 

In order for our CyberDisplay products to function properly in their intended applications, integrated circuit chip sets generally are required. Several companies have designed integrated circuit chip sets to work with our CyberDisplay products. Motorola has designed the integrated circuit chip set currently used with our CyberDisplay product in camcorders. Other companies are designing integrated circuit chip sets based on our CyberDisplay products for use in camcorders and other consumer electronics products. 

 

For the year ended December 31, 2002 sales of CyberDisplay products, as a percentage of total revenue, to Samsung, JVC and Panasonic were 26%, 15% and 13% respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2001 sales to Samsung and Panasonic accounted for 22% and 15%, respectively, of total revenue. 

 

For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, revenues from multiple contracts with various U.S. governmental agencies accounted for approximately 3%, 3%, and 2%, respectively, of our total revenues. 

 

Sales and Marketing 

 

We principally sell our HBT transistor wafer products directly to integrated circuit manufacturers in the United States, Europe and Asia. We sell our CyberDisplay products directly to original equipment manufacturers. We are targeting Asian LED packaging companies as customers for our CyberLites. Sales of our HBT transistor wafers and our CyberDisplay products to customers in Japan are made primarily through foreign distributors. We expect to sell our CyberLites directly and through distributors. 

 

We believe that the technical nature of our products and markets demands a commitment to close relationships with our customers. Our sales and marketing staff, assisted by the technical staff and senior management, visit prospective and existing customers worldwide on a regular basis. We believe these contacts are vital to the development of a close, long-term working relationship with our customers, and in obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and information regarding technical and market trends. We also participate in industry specific trade shows and conferences. 

 

Our design and engineering staff is actively involved with a customer during all phases of prototype design and production by providing engineering data, up-to-date product application notes, regular follow-up and technical assistance. In most cases, our technical staff works with each customer in the development stage to identify potential improvements to the design of the customer’s product in parallel with the customer’s effort. We have established a prototype product design group in Scotts Valley, California to assist our CyberDisplay customers to incorporate our products into their own and to reduce the time required to bring end products to the marketplace. This group helps customers accelerate their design process, achieve cost-effective and manufacturable designs, and ensure a smooth transition into high volume production. This group is also actively involved with research and development contracts of a military nature. 

 

Product Development 

 

We believe that continued introduction of new products in our target markets is essential to our growth. We have assembled a group of highly skilled engineers who work internally as well as with our customers to continue our product development efforts. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 we incurred total research and development expenses of $16.2 million, $15.3 million and $15.1 million, respectively. Research and development expenses, excluding contractual research and development work and costs associated with our acquisition of Super Epitaxial Products Inc. in 2000, related to our internal development programs for our III-V, CyberDisplay and other products were $13.1 million, $12.9 million and $6.4 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. 

 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

III-V Products 

 

Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors 

 

We intend to continue developing HBT transistor wafers and other gallium arsenide products for advanced integrated circuit applications from other compound materials. We are working closely with several of our major customers in the development of the next generation of HBT transistor wafers which will be based on Gallium Arsenide Indium Nitride (GAIN). We believe GAIN HBT transistor wafers provide the performance characterization necessary for the next generation of wireless handsets and optoelectronic components. 

 

CyberLites™ 

 

In 2000, we acquired Super Epitaxial Products, Inc. (SEP). SEP, which subsequently was renamed Kopin Optical, Inc., and provided us with expertise in gallium nitride, which was the initial technology we used to develop our CyberLite™ LED. In connection with the acquisition of SEP, we recorded charges aggregating $7.4 million for in-process research and development related to projects under development by SEP at the acquisition date and certain other costs, primarily bonuses paid to SEP employees as an inducement to remain with us. These costs are included in research and development expense for 2000 in the accompanying financial statements. 

 

We plan on developing additional colors, increasing the brightness and improving other performance characteristics of our LEDs. 

 

CyberDisplay™ Products 

 

Our product development efforts are focused towards continually enhancing the features, functions and manufacturability of our CyberDisplay products. A principal focus of this effort is the improvement of manufacturing processes for very small active matrix pixels, which we will use in succeeding generations of our CyberDisplay products. The pixel size of our current CyberDisplay products is 15 microns and we believe that we can achieve a pixel size of less than 10 microns in commercial production. This pixel size is in contrast to a pixel size of approximately 100 microns in a typical laptop computer display. The resolution of the current commercially available CyberDisplay product is 320 x 240. We have already demonstrated and are providing our customers with samples of 640 x 480 resolution CyberDisplay products in a 0.38 inch diagonal display. In addition, we have demonstrated 1,280 x 1,024 resolution CyberDisplay products in a 0.96 inch diagonal display, as well as 2,560 x 2,048 resolution CyberDisplay products in a 1.5 inch diagonal display and we are working on the commercialization of these products. We are also working on further decreasing the already low power consumption of our CyberDisplay products. During 2002 we also introduced the CyberDisplay 180k which is a color display using color filter technology. Previously we achieved color using a process called color sequential. Additional display development efforts include further automating our final display assembly processes and increasing the quantity of CyberDisplay active matrix pixel arrays processed on each transistor by further reducing the display size and increasing manufacturing yields. 

 

Funded Research and Development 

 

We have entered into various development contracts with agencies of the U.S. government. These contracts help support the continued development of our core technologies. We intend to continue to pursue other U.S. government development contracts for applications that relate to our commercial product applications. Our contracts with U.S. government agencies contain certain milestones relating to technology development and may be terminated by the government agencies prior to completion of funding. Our policy is to retain our proprietary rights with respect to the principal commercial applications of our technology. To the extent technology development has been funded by a U.S. federal agency, under applicable U.S. federal laws, the federal agency has the right to obtain a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, fully-paid license to practice or have practiced this technology for governmental use. Revenues attributable to research and development contracts for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 totaled $2.0 million, $1.7 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. 

 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Competition 

 

III-V Products 

 

Heterojunction Bipolar Transistor 

 

With respect to our HBT transistor wafers, we presently compete with several companies, including Epitronics, Emcore, V-PEC, ProCom and Hitachi Cable, as well as integrated circuit manufacturers with in-house transistor growth capabilities, such as RF Micro Devices and Fujitsu. In the gallium arsenide HBT transistor wafer market, competition is increasingly intense as a result of the downturn in the wireless and fiber optic network industries which has resulted in significant manufacturing overcapacity and lower pricing. The production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits has been and continues to be more costly than the production of silicon integrated circuits. Although we have reduced production costs of our HBT transistor wafers by achieving higher volumes and reducing raw material costs, we cannot assure you we will be able to continue to decrease production costs. In addition, we believe the costs of producing gallium arsenide integrated circuits by our customers will continue to exceed the costs associated with the production of competing silicon integrated circuits. As a result, we must target markets where these higher costs are justified by their superior performance. 

 

CyberLites™ 

 

The LED market is highly competitive with many producers all over the world, including Nichia Corporation and Toyoda Gosei in Japan, Agilent, Lumileds and Cree in the United States of America, Osram Opto Semiconductors in Europe, and Epistar and United Epitaxy Corporation in Taiwan. These competitors have varying degrees of integration ranging from fully integrated to distinct production such as LED chip manufacturing, LED packaging and surface mounted display manufacturing. We are engaging in the production of LED chips which are sold to packaging companies who in turn sell to original equipment or original device manufactures for incorporation into devices such as wireless handsets. LED pricing is projected to decline significantly over the next several years. 

 

CyberDisplay™ Products 

 

The display market is highly competitive and is currently dominated by large Asian electronics companies including Sharp, Hitachi, Seiko, Toshiba, Sony, NEC, Sanyo and Display Technologies, a joint venture of IBM and Toshiba. The display market consists of multiple segments, each focusing on different end-user applications applying different technologies. Competition in the display field is based on price and performance characteristics, product quality and the ability to deliver products in a timely fashion. The success of our display product offerings will also depend upon the adoption of our CyberDisplay products in the industry as an alternative to traditional active matrix LCDs and upon our ability to compete against other types of well-established display products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete against these companies and technologies. 

 

There are also a number of active matrix LCD and alternative display technologies in development and production. These technologies include LED, reflective, field emission display, plasma, organic light emitting diode and virtual retinal displays, some of which target the high performance small form factor display markets in which our display products are sold. There are many large and small companies that manufacture or have in development products based on these technologies. Our CyberDisplay products will compete with other displays utilizing these and other competing display technologies. 

 

Patents, Proprietary Rights and Licenses 

 

An important part of our product development strategy is to seek, when appropriate, protection for our products and proprietary technology through the use of various United States and foreign patents and contractual 

 

11 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

arrangements. We intend to prosecute and defend our proprietary technology aggressively. We own more than 90 issued United States patents and more than 40 pending United States patent applications. Many of these United States patents and applications have counterpart foreign patents, foreign applications or international applications through the Patent Cooperation Treaty. In addition, we are licensed by MIT under more than 20 issued United States patents, 1 pending United States patent application, and some foreign counterparts to these United States patents and applications. Our United States patents expire at various dates through May 2021. The United States patents licensed to us by MIT expire at various dates through October 2014. 

 

In 1985, we obtained a license from MIT to certain patents and patent applications directed to device wafers and related technology. The license grants to us a worldwide license to make, have made, use, and sell products covered by the licensed patents for the life of these patents. The license was exclusive with respect to commercial applications until April 22, 1999, and became non-exclusive at that time. In 1995, we obtained an additional license from MIT to certain optical technology. The license grants to us a worldwide license to make, have made, use, lease and sell products covered by the licensed patents until 2007. 

 

The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive and we cannot assure you that patents will issue from currently pending or future applications or that our existing patents or any new patents that may be issued will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. Patent applications in the United States typically are maintained in secrecy until they are published eighteen months after their earliest claim to priority and since publication of discoveries in the scientific and patent literature lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to conceive of inventions covered by pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications or those of our licensors will result in issued patents or that any issued patents will afford protection against a competitor. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not obtain patents that we would need to license, circumvent or cease manufacturing and sales of products covered by these patents, nor can we be sure that licenses, if needed, would be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. 

 

We cannot assure you that foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights or that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us. Our products might infringe the patent rights of others, whether existing now or in the future. For the same reasons, the products of others could infringe our patent rights. Although we are not aware of any pending or threatened patent litigation against us, we may be notified, from time to time, that we could be or we are infringing certain patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Litigation, which could be very costly or lead to substantial diversion of our resources, even if the outcome is favorable, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. These problems can be particularly severe in foreign countries. In the event of an adverse ruling in litigation against us for patent infringement, we might be required to discontinue the use of certain processes, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to patents of third parties covering the infringing technology. We cannot assure you that licenses will be obtainable on acceptable terms, or at all, or that damages for infringement will not be assessed or that litigation will not occur. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or litigation arising out of any such claims could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as we conduct it. 

 

We also attempt to protect our proprietary information with contractual arrangements and under trade secret laws. We believe that our future success will depend primarily upon the technical expertise, creative skills and management abilities of our officers and key employees rather than on patent ownership. Our employees and consultants generally enter into agreements containing provisions with respect to confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. Agreements with consultants generally provide that rights to inventions made by them while consulting for us will be assigned to us unless the 

 

12 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

assignment of rights is prohibited by the terms of any agreements with their regular employers. Agreements with employees, consultants and collaborators contain provisions intended to further protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. To date, we have had no experience in enforcing these agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached or that we would have adequate remedies for any breaches. Our trade secrets may not be secure from discovery or independent development by competitors. 

 

Government Regulations 

 

We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production or cessation of operations. Any failure on our part to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, or otherwise comply with environmental regulations, could subject us to significant future liabilities. In addition, although we believe that our past operations conformed with then applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we have not in the past violated applicable laws or regulations, which violations could result in required remediation or other liabilities. We also cannot assure you that past use or disposal of environmentally sensitive materials in conformity with then existing environmental laws and regulations will protect us from required remediation or other liabilities under current or future environmental laws or regulations. 

 

Investments in Related Businesses 

 

In 1997 we invested in a privately held company, Kendin Communications Inc. (Kendin), a developer and manufacturer of silicon integrated circuits for high speed data and network communications. At December 31, 2000, we had a 20% interest in Kendin, which we accounted for using the equity method and which had a carrying value of $3.2 million. In the second quarter of 2001, we exchanged our 20% interest in Kendin for 986,054 shares of Micrel Incorporated (Micrel) as part of Micrel’s acquisition of Kendin. At the date of the exchange the closing price of Micrel’s common stock was $29.31 and we recorded a gain of $24.6 million as a result of this exchange in the quarter ended June 30, 2001. During the third quarter of 2001 the Company sold 200,000 shares of Micrel and recorded a gain of $700,000. 

 

We have accounted for our investment in Micrel common stock as available-for-sale securities since the receipt of Micrel shares and changes in the value of the Micrel investment have been reflected in Other Comprehensive Income. 

 

In the second quarter of 2002 we received an additional 115,448 shares of Micrel which were held in escrow. In addition, in the second and fourth quarters of 2002 we sold approximately 249,449 and 150,000 shares, respectively, of Micrel. As a result of these transactions we recorded losses of $101,000 and $2.5 million in the second and fourth quarters, respectively. On December 31, 2002 the closing price of Micrel’s common stock was $8.98 per share. As a result of the continuing decline in the price of Micrel common stock we believe the decline in fair value was other than temporary and accordingly we recognized a charge of $10.2 million to record the Micrel investment at fair value. 

 

Since the receipt of the Micrel shares we have sold approximately 600,000 shares for total proceeds of $12.0 million. As of December 31, 2002 we held approximately 500,000 shares of Micrel common stock. 

 

In 2000, we acquired Super Epitaxial Products, Inc. (SEP) in a transaction accounted for as a purchase. Under the terms of the agreement, we issued approximately 1.68 million shares of our common stock and assumed the obligation to issue our common stock to satisfy existing SEP options, with an aggregate total value of approximately $24.0 million, in exchange for all the outstanding SEP common stock. We consolidated the financial statements of SEP with our financial statements beginning in the fourth quarter of 2000. 

 

In 2000, we made an investment of $5.1 million and contributed certain technology for which we received a 40% interest in Kopin Taiwan Corporation (KTC), a Taiwan company. We account for our percent ownership interest in the operating results of this company using the equity method. For the year ended December 31, 2002 

 

13 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

we recorded a loss of $949,000, which represents our percentage of KTC’s operating results. The carrying value of this investment at December 31, 2002 was $3.7 million. Dr. Hsieh, one of our Directors, is chairman of KTC. Dr. Hsieh owns approximately 1% of the outstanding common stock of the venture. 

 

In 1998 and 2000 we made investments totaling $3.6 million in Kowon Technology Co. LTD (Kowon), a manufacturer of optoelectronic products located in South Korea, for which we received a 67% equity interest. We consolidated the financial statements of Kowon with our financial statements beginning in the second quarter of 1998. Kowon’s results of operations are principally denominated in South Korean won and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Kowon is an integral part of our CyberDisplay assembly process, performing most of the backend packaging processes to complete the display. 

 

We may from time to time make further equity investments in these and other companies engaged in certain aspects of the display and electronics industries as part of our business strategy. These investments may not provide us with any financial return or other benefit and any losses by these companies or associated losses in our investments may negatively impact our operating results. Certain officers and directors have invested in some of the companies we have invested in. 

 

Employees 

 

As of December 31, 2002, we and our majority and wholly-owned subsidiaries employed 379 full-time and 6 part-time individuals. Of these, 20 hold Ph.D. degrees in Material Science, Electrical Engineering or Physics. Our management and professional employees have significant prior experience in semiconductor materials, device transistor and display processing, manufacturing and other related technologies. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider relations with our employees to be good. 

 

Web Availability 

 

The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website, www.kopin.com, its annual reports on Form 10-K and other reports required under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. 
