
Item 1.        Business

General

         Linear   Technology   Corporation   (together  with  its   consolidated
subsidiaries,  "Linear Technology" or the "Company")  designs,  manufactures and
markets a broad line of standard high performance  linear  integrated  circuits.
Applications  for the Company's  products include  telecommunications,  cellular
telephones,  networking  products and  satellite  systems,  notebook and desktop
computers, computer peripherals,  video/multimedia,  industrial instrumentation,
automotive  electronics,  factory automation,  process control, and military and
space  systems.  The  Company  was  organized  and  incorporated  in  1981  by a
management  team with  significant  experience  in the design,  manufacture  and
marketing of linear circuits. During fiscal year 2001 the Company reincorporated
from  California  to Delaware.  The Company  competes  primarily on the basis of
performance, functional value, quality, reliability and service.

The linear circuit industry

         Semiconductor  components  are the electronic  building  blocks used in
electronic  systems and  equipment.  These  components  are classified as either
discrete  devices (such as individual  transistors)  or integrated  circuits (in
which a number of  transistors  and other  elements  are combined to form a more
complicated electronic circuit). Integrated circuits ("ICs") may be divided into
two general categories,  digital and linear (or analog).  Digital circuits, such
as memory  devices and  microprocessors,  generally  process  on-off  electrical
signals, represented by binary digits, "1" and "0." In contrast, linear circuits
monitor,  condition,  amplify or transform  continuous analog signals associated
with physical properties, such as temperature, pressure, weight, light, sound or
speed, and play an important role in bridging between real world phenomena and a
variety of electronic  systems.  Linear circuits also provide voltage regulation
and power control to electronic systems, especially in hand-held battery powered
systems.

         The Company  believes that several  factors  generally  distinguish the
linear integrated circuit business from the digital circuit business, including:

                  Importance  of  Individual  Design  Contribution.  The Company
           believes that the  creativity of  individual  design  engineers is of
           particular importance in the linear circuit industry. The design of a
           linear integrated  circuit  generally  involves a greater variety and
           less repetition of circuit elements than digital design. In addition,
           the interaction of linear circuit elements is complex,  and the exact
           placement  of  these  elements  in the  circuit  is  critical  to the
           circuit's precision and performance.  Computer-aided  engineering and
           design  tools for linear  circuits  are not as  accurate  in modeling
           circuits as those tools used for  designing  digital  circuits.  As a
           result,  the contributions of a relatively small number of individual
           design engineers are generally of greater importance in the design of
           linear circuits than in the design of digital circuits.

                  Smaller Capital Requirements.  Digital circuit design attempts
           to minimize  device size and  maximize  speed by  increasing  circuit
           densities.  The process  technology  necessary for increased  density
           requires very expensive  wafer  fabrication  equipment.  In contrast,
           linear circuit  design  focuses on precise  matching and placement of
           circuit  elements,  and linear  circuits  often require large feature
           sizes to achieve precision and high voltage  operation.  Accordingly,
           the linear circuit  manufacturing  process generally requires smaller
           initial capital expenditures, particularly for photomasking equipment
           and  clean  room  facilities,   and  less  frequent   replacement  of
           manufacturing equipment because the equipment has, to date, been less
           vulnerable to technological obsolescence.

                  Market Diversity;  Relative Pricing Stability.  Because of the
           varied  applications  for linear  circuits,  manufacturers  typically
           offer a greater  variety of device types to a more  diverse  group of
           customers, who typically have smaller volume requirements per device.
           As a result,  linear circuit  manufacturers  are often less dependent
           upon  particular  products or customers,  linear circuit  markets are
           generally more fragmented, and competition within those markets tends
           to be more  diffused.  The Company  believes that  competition in the
           linear circuit  market is  particularly  dependent upon  performance,
           functional  value,

                                       1

<PAGE>

           quality, reliability and service. As a result, linear circuit pricing
           has generally been more stable than most digital circuit pricing.

                  Less Japanese And Other Asian Competition.  To date,  Japanese
           and other Asian  firms have  concentrated  their  efforts on the high
           volume digital and consumer  linear  markets,  as opposed to the high
           performance end of the linear circuit market served by the Company.

         The Semiconductor Industry. The semiconductor industry is characterized
by rapid technological change, price erosion, cyclical market patterns, periodic
oversupply conditions,  occasional shortages of materials, capacity constraints,
variations in  manufacturing  efficiencies,  and  significant  expenditures  for
capital   equipment   and   product   development.   Furthermore,   new  product
introductions  and patent  protection of existing  products are critical factors
for future  sales  growth and  sustained  profitability.  Although  the  Company
believes  that the high  performance  segment  of the linear  circuit  market is
generally  less  affected  by  price  erosion,   cyclical  market  patterns  and
significant  expenditures  for capital  equipment and product  development  than
other  semiconductor  market  sectors,  future  operating  results  may  reflect
substantial period to period fluctuations due to these or other factors.

         The  Company's   headquarters  and  a  portion  of  its   manufacturing
facilities  and research and  development  and certain other  critical  business
operations  are  located  near  major  earthquake  fault  lines  in  California.
Consequently  the Company  could be  adversely  affected in the event of a major
earthquake.  In addition,  California  is currently  experiencing  the threat of
interruption  in the  availability  of  electricity.  To date the  impact on the
Company has been negligible.  However, electricity is a critical resource to the
Company without which its products could not be manufactured.

         Although  the  Company   believes  that  it  has  the  product   lines,
manufacturing  facilities and technical and financial  resources for its current
operations,  sales and profitability can be significantly  affected by the above
and other factors.  Additionally, the Company's common stock could be subject to
significant  price  volatility  should  sales and/or  earnings  fail to meet the
expectations of the investment community. Furthermore, stocks of high technology
companies  are subject to extreme price and volume  fluctuations  that are often
unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies.

Products and markets

         Linear  Technology  produces a wide range of products  for a variety of
customers  and  markets.  The Company  emphasizes  standard  products to address
larger  markets and to reduce the risk of  dependency  upon a single  customer's
requirements.  The Company  targets the high  performance  segment of the linear
circuit market.  "High  performance" is characterized by higher precision,  both
high power or micropower,  higher speed, more subsystem  integration on a single
chip and many other special  features.  The Company focuses virtually all of its
design efforts on proprietary  products which, at the time of introduction,  are
original designs by the Company offering unique characteristics  differentiating
them from those offered by competitors.

         Although the types and mix of linear products vary by application,  the
principal product categories are as follows:

         Amplifiers - These circuits  amplify the voltage or output current of a
device. The amplification  represents the ratio of the output voltage or current
to the input voltage or current.  The most widely used device is the operational
amplifier due to its versatility and precision.

         High Speed  Amplifiers - These  amplifiers are used to amplify  signals
above  5MHz for  applications  such as  video,  fast data  acquisition  and data
communication.

         Voltage Regulators - Voltage regulators control the voltage of a device
or circuit at a specified level. This category of product consists  primarily of
two types,  the linear  regulator  and the switch  mode  regulator.  Switch mode
regulators  are also used to  convert  voltage up or down  within an  electronic
system for power management and battery charging.

         Voltage  References - These  circuits  serve as  electronic  benchmarks
providing  a constant  voltage for system  usage.  Precision  references  have a
constant output independent of input, temperature changes or time.

                                       2
<PAGE>

         Interface  -  Interface  circuits  act as an  intermediary  to transfer
digital signals between or within electronic systems. These circuits are used in
computers, modems, instruments and remote data acquisition systems.

         Data Converters - These circuits  change linear  (analog)  signals into
digital  signals,  or vice versa,  and are often referred to as data acquisition
subsystems, A/D converters and D/A converters. The accuracy and speed with which
the analog  signal is converted to its digital  counterpart  is considered a key
characteristic for these devices.

         Other - Other linear circuits include buffers,  battery monitors, motor
controllers,   hot  swap   circuits,   comparators,   sample-and-hold   devices,
modulators/demodulators,  drivers  and  filters,  both  switched  capacitor  and
continuous  time,  which are used to limit  and/or  manipulate  signals  in such
applications  as  cellular   telephones,   base  stations,   navigation   system
instrumentation and detection circuitry.

         Linear   circuits   are   used  in   various   applications   including
telecommunications,  cellular  telephones,  networking  products  and  satellite
systems, notebook and desktop computers, computer peripherals, video/multimedia,
industrial instrumentation,  automotive electronics, factory automation, process
control,  and  military  and space  systems.  The  Company  focuses  its product
development and marketing  efforts on high  performance  applications  where the
Company  believes it can position itself  competitively  with respect to product
performance and functional value.

The following table sets forth,  with respect to each of the market areas served
by the Company, examples of specific end applications of the Company's products.

                                       3

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
Market                End Applications/Products                                 Example Product Families
------                -------------------------                                 ------------------------
<CAPTION>

                                                                     ----
<S>                    <C>                                           <C>       <C>
Industrial/Process     Flow or rate metering                            |
     Control           Position/pressure/                               |
                         temperature sensing and control                |
                       Robotics                                         |
                       Energy management                                |
                       Process control data communication               |
                       Network and factory automation                   |
                       Security systems                                 |
                                                                        |      Data acquisition products
                                                                        |      High performance operational
                                                                        |       amplifiers
                                                                        |      Interface (RS 485/232) products
                                                                        |      Instrumentation amplifiers
Instrumentation/       Curve tracers                                  -------  Linear voltage regulators
     Measurement       Logic analyzers                                  |      Line drivers
                       Multimeters                                      |      Line receivers
                       Oscilloscopes                                    |      Precision comparators
                       Test equipment                                   |      Precision voltage references
                       Voltmeters                                       |      Monolithic filters
                       Network analyzers                                |      Switching voltage regulators
                       Scales                                           |      Voltage references
                       Analytic instruments                             |      Hot swap circuits
                       Blood analyzers                                  |
                       Gas chromatic graphs                             |
                       EKG, CAT scanners                                |
                                                                        |
Space/Military         Communications                                   |
and Transportation     Satellites                                       |
                       Guidance and navigation systems                  |
                       Displays                                         |
                       Firing control                                   |
                       Ground support equipment                         |
                       Radar systems                                    |
                       Sonar systems                                    |
                       Surveillance equipment                       __ _|

                                                                     ----
                                                                        |
Communications/        Cellular phones (CDMA/WCDMA/GPRS/3G)             |      DC - DC converters
     Networking        Cellular basestations                            |      V.35 transceiver
                       Pagers                                           |      High-speed amplifiers
                       Modems/fax machines                              |      Line drivers
                       PBX switches                                     |      Line receivers
                       GPS systems                                      |      Low noise operational amplifiers
                       Optical Networking                              ------  Micropower products
                       ADSL modems                                      |      Power management
                       Channel service unit/data service unit           |      Switched capacitor filters
                       Cable modems                                     |      Voltage references
                       Internet Appliances                              |      Voltage regulators
                       Servers                                          |      Data acquisition products
                       Routers                                          |      Hot Swap controllers
                       Switches                                         |      Multi-protocol circuits
                                                                        |      Thermal Electric Cooler
                                                                        |      Power Amplifier Control
                                                                        |      Modulators/Demodulators

                                                 4

<PAGE>


                                                                     ___|       2-Phase Switching Regulators

                                                                     - --
Computer/Computer      Communications/interface modems                  |      Battery charging
     Peripherals       Disk drives                                      |      DC - DC converters
                       Notebook computers                               |      Data acquisition products
                       Desktop computers                                |      Hot Swap controllers
                       Workstations                                     |      Line drivers
                       LCD displays/monitors                            |      Line receivers
                       Plotters/printers                                ------ Low drop out linear regulators
                       Digital cameras                                  |      Micropower products
                       Power supplies                                   |      2-Phase Switching Regulators
                       Handheld PCs                                     |      PCMCIA power switching
                       Battery chargers                                 |      Power management
                       Video/multimedia                                 |      Switching voltage regulators
                       MP3 players                                      |
                       PDAs                                             |
                       Pet Robots                                    ___|
</TABLE>

Marketing and customers

         The Company  markets its  products  worldwide,  through a direct  sales
staff,  electronics  distributors,  and a small  network  of  independent  sales
representatives, to a broad range of customers in diverse industries. Within the
United States,  in late fiscal 2001, the Company  transitioned  its sales effort
from a network of independent sales representatives  primarily to a direct sales
staff.  In  addition,  the Company  also  reduced  its number of large  national
distributors  from  two to  one.  The  Company  sells  to over  15,000  Original
Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) customers,  many of which purchase on an individual
purchase  order  basis,  rather than  pursuant to long-term  agreements.  Of the
Company's largest domestic distributors,  one domestic distributor accounted for
12%  of  net  sales  during  fiscal  2001,   two   distributors   accounted  for
approximately  14% and 11% of net sales in  fiscal  2000,  and two  distributors
accounted  for  approximately  14%  and 10% of net  sales  during  fiscal  1999.
Distributors  are not end  customers,  but rather  serve as a channel of sale to
many end users of the  Company's  products.  No other  distributor  or  customer
accounted for 10% or more of net sales for fiscal 2001, 2000 or 1999.

         The  Company's   sales   organization  is  divided  into  domestic  and
international  regions,  with sales offices located in the metropolitan areas of
San Jose, Boston,  Philadelphia,  Baltimore,  Raleigh,  Chicago, Dallas, Austin,
Houston,  Los  Angeles,  Irvine,  Cleveland,   Portland,   Denver,   Hunstville,
Minneapolis,  San  Diego,  Seattle,  London,  Stockholm,   Dusseldorf,   Munich,
Stuttgart,  Paris, Lyon, Singapore,  Tokyo, Osaka, Taipei, Seoul, Hong Kong, and
Shanghai.  The Company's  products  typically require a sophisticated  technical
sales effort.

         The Company has agreements with 3 independent sales  representatives in
the United States and 2 in Canada. Commissions are paid to sales representatives
upon shipments  either  directly from the Company or through  distributors.  The
Company has agreements with 3 independent  distributors  in North America,  5 in
Europe, 3 in Japan, 2 each in China and Taiwan, and 1 each in Korea,  Singapore,
Malaysia, Thailand, South Africa, Philippines, India, Israel, Australia, and New
Zealand. The Company's  distributors  purchase the Company's products for resale
to  customers.  Additionally,  domestic  distributors  often  sell  competitors'
products.  Under certain  agreements,  the Company's  domestic  distributors are
entitled to price  rebates on inventory if the Company  lowers the prices of its
products. The agreements also generally permit distributors to exchange up to 5%
of purchases on a quarterly basis. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 13.1 of this Form 10-K,  which
contains  certain  information  included in the Company's  2001 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

         During  fiscal  2001,  2000 and 1999,  export  sales were  primarily to
Europe,  Japan and Asia and  represented  approximately  54%, 54% and 54% of net
sales,  respectively.  Because most of the Company's export sales are billed and
payable in United  States  dollars,  export  sales are  generally  not  directly
subject to fluctuating currency exchange rates. A strengthening of the dollar in
relation to other currencies may,  however,  create pricing  pressure.  Although
export sales are subject to certain control restrictions,  including approval by
the Office of Export Administration of the United States Department of Commerce,
the Company  has not  experienced  any  material  difficulties  relating to such
restrictions.

                                       5

<PAGE>

         The  Company's  backlog of released  and firm orders was  approximately
$71.5 million at July 1, 2001 as compared  with $298.4  million at July 2, 2000.
In addition to its backlog, the Company had $31.8 million of product sold to and
held by domestic  distributors  at July 1, 2001 as compared to $22.0  million at
July 2, 2000.  Generally,  shipments to domestic distributors are not recognized
as sales  until the  distributor  has sold the  products to its  customers.  The
Company  defines  backlog as consisting of distributor  stocking  orders and OEM
orders for which a delivery  schedule has been specified by the OEM customer for
product  shipment  within six  months.  Although  the  Company  receives  volume
purchase orders, most of these purchase orders are cancelable, generally outside
of thirty days of delivery,  by the customer without significant  penalty.  Lead
time for the release of purchase orders depends upon the scheduling practices of
the individual customer and the availability of individual products, so the rate
of booking new orders varies from month to month. The ordering practices of many
semiconductor  customers  has  shifted  from a practice  of placing  orders with
delivery  dates  extending over several months to the practice of placing orders
with shorter delivery dates in concert with the Company's lead times.  Also, the
Company's  agreements  with  certain  distributors  provide  for  limited  price
protection.  Consequently,  the Company does not believe that its backlog at any
time is necessarily representative of actual sales for any succeeding period.

         In the operating  history of the Company,  seasonality  of business has
not been a material  factor,  although the results of  operations  for the first
fiscal quarter of each year are impacted  slightly by customary summer holidays,
particularly in Europe.

         The Company warrants that its products,  until they are incorporated in
other  products,  are free from defects in workmanship and materials and conform
to the Company's published specifications.  Warranty expense has been nominal to
date.

Manufacturing

         The  Company's  wafer  fabrication  and  manufacturing  facilities  are
located  at  its  headquarters  in  Milpitas,   California,  and  at  its  wafer
fabrication  plant in Camas,  Washington.  Each  facility  was built to  Company
specifications to support a number of sophisticated  process technologies and to
satisfy rigorous quality assurance and reliability requirements of United States
military specifications and major worldwide OEM customers.  All of the Company's
manufacturing facilities have received ISO 9001/ISO 9002 certification.

         The Company's wafer fabrication  facility located in Camas,  Washington
commenced manufacturing  operations in the second half of fiscal 1997. The Camas
wafer  fabrication  facility is used to produce six-inch diameter wafers for use
in the  production of the Company's  devices;  the Company's  original  Milpitas
wafer  fabrication  plant  produces   four-inch  diameter  wafers.  The  Company
currently  uses similar  manufacturing  processes in both its Milpitas and Camas
facilities.  The Company has completed  construction of a new wafer  fabrication
facility,  near its existing  facilities  in Milpitas.  Production  for this new
six-inch wafer  fabrication plant commenced in the third quarter of fiscal 2001.
The Company has also completed an addition to its Camas facility,  which allowed
the Camas manufacturing  operation to continue to grow during fiscal 2001. Camas
also has 20,000 square feet of building space available for future expansion.

         The Company's  basic process  technologies  include high speed bipolar,
high  gain,  low  noise   bipolar,   silicon  gate   complementary   metal-oxide
semiconductor   ("CMOS")  and  BiCMOS  processes.   The  Company  also  has  two
proprietary complementary bipolar processes. The Company's bipolar processes are
typically used in linear circuits where high voltages,  high power, low noise or
effective  component matching is necessary.  The Company's  proprietary  silicon
gate CMOS  processes  provide  switch  characteristics  required for many linear
circuit  functions,  as well as an efficient  mechanism for combining linear and
digital  circuits on the same chip.  The Company's CMOS processes were developed
to  address  the  specific   requirements  of  linear  circuit  functions.   The
complementary  bipolar  processes  were developed to address higher speed analog
functions.  The  Company's  basic  processes  can be  combined  with a number of
adjunct processes to create a diversity of IC components. A minor portion of the
Company's  wafer  manufacturing,  particularly  very  small  features  size CMOS
products, is done at an independent foundry.

         The  accompanying  chart  provides a brief overview of the Company's IC
process capabilities:

                                       6

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
                                         PROCESS CAPABILITIES
<CAPTION>

Process Families              Benefit/Market Advantage                     Product Application
----------------              ------------------------                     -------------------

<S>                           <C>                                          <C>
P-Well SiGate CMOS            General purpose, stability                   Switches, filters, data conversion,
                                                                           chopper amplifiers

N-Well SiGate CMOS            Speed, density, stability                    Switches, data conversion

BICMOS                        Speed, density, stability, flexibility       Data conversion

High Power Bipolar            Power (100 watts), high current              Linear and smart power products,
                              (10 amps)                                    switching regulators

Low Noise Bipolar             Precision, low current, low noise,           Op amps, voltage references
                              high gain

High Speed Bipolar            Fast, wideband, video high data              Op amps, video, comparators,
                              rate                                         switching regulators

JFETS                         Speed, precision, low current                Op amps, switches, sample and
                                                                           hold

Rad - Hard                    Total dose radiation hardened                All space products

Complementary Bipolar         Speed, low distortion, precision             Op amps, video amps, converters

CMOS/ Thin Films              Stability, precision                         Filters, data conversion

High Voltage CMOS             High voltage general-purpose,                Switches, chopper amplifiers
                              compatible with Bipolar

Bipolar/Thin Films            Precision, stability, matching               Converters, amplifiers

RF Bipolar                    High speed, low power                        RF wireless, high speed
                                                                           data communications
</TABLE>


         The Company  emphasizes  quality and  reliability  from initial product
design through  manufacturing,  packaging and testing. The Company's design team
focuses on fault  tolerant  design and optimum  location of circuit  elements to
enhance reliability.  Linear Technology's wafer fabrication facilities have been
designed to minimize wafer handling and the impact of operator error through the
use of  microprocessor-controlled  equipment.  The Company has obtained  Defense
Supply Center,  Columbus (DSCC) qualification to participate in high reliability
JAN38510 (class B) military business.  The Company has also received Jan Class S
Microcircuit  Certification,  which enables the Company to manufacture  products
intended  for use in space or for critical  applications  where  replacement  is
extremely difficult or impossible and where reliability is imperative.

         The Company is certified to comply with the ISO 9001/9002 international
quality standard. This certification covers the Company's design,  manufacturing
and  service  organizations  and  is an  important  standard  especially  in the
European  marketplace.   The  Company  has  received   MIL-PRF-38535   Qualified
Manufacturers Listing (QML) certification for military products from DSCC.

         Processed wafers are sent to either the Company's  assembly facility in
Penang,  Malaysia  or to offshore  independent  assembly  contractors  where the
wafers are separated into individual circuits and packaged.  The Penang facility
opened in October 1994 and services  approximately  two-thirds  of the Company's
assembly  requirements for plastic packages.  The Company completed an extension
of approximately  75,000 square feet to

                                       7

<PAGE>

the Penang  facility in late fiscal 2000.  Significant  assembly  subcontractors
used by the Company are Carsem(M) Sdn,  Carsem  Semiconductor  Sdn and Unisem(M)
Sdn located in Malaysia. The Company also maintains domestic assembly operations
to satisfy  particular  customer  requirements,  especially  those for  military
applications, and to provide rapid turnaround for new product development.

         After  assembly,  most  products  are sent to the  Company's  Singapore
facility for final testing,  inspection and packaging as required. Some products
are returned to Milpitas for the same back-end processing.

         Linear  Technology from time to time has experienced  competition  from
other manufacturers seeking assembly of circuits by independent contractors. The
Company  currently  believes that alternative  foreign assembly sources could be
obtained without significant interruption.  Foreign assembly is subject to risks
normally  associated  with  foreign  operations,   including  changes  in  local
governmental  policies,  currency  fluctuations,  transportation  delays and the
imposition of export controls or increased import tariffs.

         From time to time  certain  materials,  including  silicon  wafers  and
plastic molding  compounds,  have been in short supply.  To date the Company has
experienced  no delays in obtaining  raw  materials  which could have  adversely
affected production.  As is typical in the industry,  the Company must allow for
significant lead times in delivery of its materials.

         Manufacturing of individual  products,  from wafer fabrication  through
final  testing,  may take from ten to sixteen  weeks.  Since the Company sells a
wide  variety of device  types,  and  customers  typically  expect  delivery  of
products within a short period of time following order, the Company  maintains a
substantial work-in-process and finished goods inventory.

         Based on its anticipated production requirements,  the Company believes
it will have  sufficient  available  resources  and  manufacturing  capacity for
fiscal 2002.

Patents, licenses and trademarks

         The Company has been awarded 153 United States  patents,  and has filed
85  additional  patent  applications.  Although the Company  believes that these
patents and patent  applications  may have value,  the Company's  future success
will depend  primarily upon the technical  abilities and creative  skills of its
personnel, rather than on its patents.

         As is common in the  semiconductor  industry,  the Company has at times
been notified of claims that it may be infringing  patents issued to others.  If
it appears  necessary or  desirable,  the Company may seek  licenses  under such
patents,  although there can be no assurance that all necessary  licenses can be
obtained by the Company on acceptable terms.

         In  addition,  from time to time the Company may  negotiate  with other
companies  to license  patents,  products or process  technology  for use in its
business.

Government sales

         The Company currently has no material U.S. Government contracts.

Competition

         Linear  Technology  competes  in the high  performance  segment  of the
linear market.  The Company's  competitors  include Analog Devices,  Inc., Maxim
Integrated Products,  Inc., Motorola,  Inc., National Semiconductor  Corporation
and Texas Instruments, Inc. Competition among manufacturers of linear integrated
circuits  is  intense,  and  certain  of  the  Company's  competitors  may  have
significantly   greater  financial,   technical,   manufacturing  and  marketing
resources  than the  Company.  The  principal  elements of  competition  include
product  performance,  functional  value,  quality  and  reliability,  technical
service and support, price, diversity of product line and delivery capabilities.
The Company  believes  it  competes  favorably  with  respect to these  factors,
although it may be at a  disadvantage  in  comparison to larger  companies  with
broader product lines and greater technical service and support capabilities.

                                       8

<PAGE>

Research and development

         The  Company's  ability to compete  depends in part upon its  continued
introduction  of  technologically  innovative  products  on a timely  basis.  To
facilitate this need, the Company has organized its product  development efforts
into four groups: power management,  signal conditioning,  mixed signal and high
frequency.  Linear Technology's  product development strategy emphasizes a broad
line of standard products to address a diversity of customer  applications.  The
Company's  research and development  efforts are directed primarily at designing
and introducing  new products and, to a lesser extent,  developing new processes
and advanced packaging.

         As of July 1,  2001,  the  Company  had 213  employees  engaged  in new
product design at its Milpitas  facility.  In addition,  at fiscal year end, the
Company had 14 employees at its  Singapore  design  center,  43 employees at its
Boston design center,  19 employees at its Colorado design center,  10 employees
at its New Hampshire  design center which was opened in fiscal 1999, 7 employees
at its Raleigh design center which opened in fiscal 2000, and 6 employees at its
Santa Barbara design center which opened in fiscal 2001.

         For  the  fiscal  years  2001,   2000  and  1999,   the  Company  spent
approximately $102.5 million, $78.3 million and $54.7 million,  respectively, on
research and development.

Environmental regulation

         Federal,  state  and local  regulations  impose  various  environmental
controls on the storage,  use,  discharge and disposal of certain  chemicals and
gases used in  semiconductor  processing.  The  Company's  facilities  have been
designed to comply with these  regulations,  and the Company  believes  that its
activities  conform  to present  environmental  regulations.  Increasing  public
attention has, however,  been focused on the environmental impact of electronics
manufacturing  operations.  While the  Company to date has not  experienced  any
materially adverse business effects from environmental regulations, there can be
no assurance  that changes in such  regulations  will not require the Company to
acquire costly remediation  equipment or to incur substantial expenses to comply
with such  regulations.  Any failure by semiconductor  companies,  including the
Company, to control the storage,  use or disposal of, or adequately restrict the
discharge  of  hazardous  substances  could  also  subject  them to  significant
liabilities.

Employees

         As of July 1, 2001, the Company had 3,193  employees,  including 267 in
marketing  and sales,  670 in  research,  development  and  engineering  related
functions,  2,174  in  manufacturing  and  production,  and  82  in  management,
administration  and finance.  The Company's success depends upon a number of key
employees,  the loss of whom could  adversely  impact the  Company.  The Company
believes  that its future  success will depend in large part upon its ability to
attract,  retain and motivate highly skilled employees.  In the San Jose/Silicon
Valley area, where the Company's principal  facilities are located,  competition
for such employees is intense.

         The Company has never had a work stoppage, no employees are represented
by a labor organization,  and the Company considers its employee relations to be
good.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

<TABLE>
         The executive  officers of the Company,  and their ages as of September
10, 2001, are as follows:
<CAPTION>

Name                            Age              Position
----                            ---              --------

<S>                               <C>            <C>
Robert H. Swanson, Jr...........  63             Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Clive B. Davies.................  58             President
Paul Chantalat..................  51             Vice President Quality and Reliability
Paul Coghlan....................  56             Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer
Timothy D. Cox..................  53             Vice President of North American Sales
Robert C. Dobkin................  57             Vice President of Engineering and Chief Technical Officer
Lothar Maier....................  46             Vice President and Chief Operating Officer


                                       9

<PAGE>

David A. Quarles................  35             Vice President of International Sales
Arthur F. Schneiderman..........  59             Secretary
</TABLE>

         Mr.  Swanson,  a founder of the Company,  has served as Chairman of the
Board of Directors and Chief  Executive  Officer since April 1999,  and prior to
that time as President,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a director of the Company
since its incorporation in September 1981. From August 1968 to July 1981, he was
employed   in  various   positions   at   National   Semiconductor   Corporation
("National"),  a manufacturer of integrated  circuits,  including Vice President
and General  Manager of the Linear  Integrated  Circuit  Operation  and Managing
Director in Europe.  Mr. Swanson has a BS degree in Industrial  Engineering from
Northeastern University.

         Dr.  Davies has  served as  President  since  April  1999,  and as Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer from January 1989 to April 1999. From July
1982 to January 1989, Dr. Davies held the position of Vice President of Quality,
Reliability and Customer Service.  From April 1971 to July 1982, he was employed
in  various  positions  at  National,  including  Group  Director  for  Advanced
Technology, Group Managing Director of the Singapore and Hong Kong Manufacturing
Operations  and  Business  Director  of  Standard  Linear   Integrated   Circuit
Operations.  Dr. Davies received a B.Sc. (Honors) in Physics in 1964 and a Ph.D.
in Physics in 1967 from the University of Reading, England.

         Mr.  Chantalat has served as Vice President of Quality and  Reliability
since  July  1991.  From  January  1989 to July 1991,  he held the  position  of
Director of Quality and Reliability.  From July 1983 to January 1989 he held the
position of Manager of Quality and Reliability. From February 1976 to July 1983,
he was employed in various positions at National, where his most recent position
was Group Manager of Manufacturing Quality Engineering. Mr. Chantalat received a
BS and an MS in  Electrical  Engineering  from  Stanford  University in 1970 and
1972, respectively.

         Mr. Coghlan has served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company since December 1986.  From October 1981 until joining the
Company, he was employed in various positions at GenRad, Inc., a manufacturer of
automated test  equipment,  including  Corporate  Controller,  Vice President of
Corporate  Quality and most recently Vice  President and General  Manager of the
Structural Test Products Division.  Before joining GenRad, Inc., Mr. Coghlan was
associated  with Price  Waterhouse  & Company  in the  United  States and Paris,
France for twelve years.  Mr. Coghlan  received a BA from Boston College in 1966
and an MBA from Babson College in 1968.

         Mr. Cox has served as Vice President of North American Sales since July
1991.  From  February  1991 to July 1991 he held the  position  of  Director  of
National Sales. From January 1990 to February 1991, and February 1983 to October
1987 he was employed at National where his most recent  position was Director of
Northwestern  Sales.  From October 1987 to June 1989,  he was Vice  President of
Sales for Micro Linear.  Prior to 1983,  Mr. Cox was employed for seven years as
Vice  President & Principal  of Micro Sales Inc. Mr. Cox received a BSEE in 1970
from Valparaiso Technical Institute, Valparaiso, Indiana.

         Mr. Dobkin,  a founder of the Company,  has served as Vice President of
Engineering and Chief Technical  Officer since April 1999, and as Vice President
of  Engineering  from  September  1981 to April 1999.  From January 1969 to July
1981,  he was employed in various  positions at National,  where his most recent
position was Director of Advanced Circuit Development.  Mr. Dobkin has extensive
experience  in linear  circuit  design.  Mr. Dobkin  attended the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

         Mr. Maier joined the Company as Chief Operating  Officer in April 1999.
From 1983 to 1999,  he was  employed  at Cypress  Semiconductor  Corporation  in
various  management  positions,  mostly  recently as Senior Vice  President  and
Executive  Vice  President of Worldwide  Operations.  Mr. Maier received a BS in
Chemical Engineering in 1978 from the University of California at Berkeley.

         Mr. Quarles has served as Vice President of  International  Sales since
August  2001.  From October 2000 to August 2001 he held the position of Director
of Marketing.  From July 1996 to September  2000 he held the postion of Director
of  Asia-Pacific  Sales  stationed in Singapore.  From June 1991 to July 1996 he
worked as a Sales  Engineer and later as District Sales Manager for the Bay Area
sales team. Prior to Linear, Mr. Quarles worked two years as a Sales Engineer at
National  Semiconductor.  Mr. Quarles received a BS in Electrical Engineering in
1988 from Cornell University.

                                       10

<PAGE>
         Mr. Schneiderman has served as Secretary of the Company since September
1981.  He is an  attorney  and a  member  of the law  firm of  Wilson,  Sonsini,
Goodrich & Rosati, Professional Corporation, general counsel to the Company.
