ITEM 1. BUSINESS

    Lattice Semiconductor Corporation, ("Lattice"), founded in 1983 and based in
Hillsboro, Oregon, designs, develops and markets the broadest range of high
performance ISP-TM- programmable logic devices ("PLDs") and offers total
solutions for today's advanced logic designs. We introduced in-system
programmability to the logic industry in 1992. Our products are sold worldwide
through an extensive network of independent sales representatives and
distributors primarily to OEM customers in the communications, computing,
industrial and military end markets. Approximately one-half of our revenue is
derived from export sales, mainly to Europe and Asia.

    In June 1999, we acquired Vantis Corporation, Advanced Micro Device, Inc.'s
("AMD's") PLD division, for approximately $500 million in cash. The transaction
is being accounted for under the purchase method in our consolidated financial
statements beginning with the period ended July 3, 1999. We have also agreed
with AMD to sign a mutual election under the Internal Revenue Code that will
allow us to deduct the purchase price for tax purposes over a 15-year period. We
believe this acquisition will enable us to increase our share of the PLD market,
accelerate development of new products and technologies and provide us with
access to a complementary customer base. While Vantis remains a wholly-owned
subsidiary, its business, which was substantially similar to our business, has
been integrated into our operations. Prior to the acquisition, Vantis relied
upon AMD for most manufacturing services. As a part of our acquisition
agreement, AMD has agreed to continue to perform these services for a specific
time period.

CHANGE IN FISCAL REPORTING PERIOD

    In the fourth quarter of calendar 1999, we changed our reporting period to a
52 or 53 week year ending on the Saturday closest to December 31 from a 52 or 53
week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to March 31. This Form 10-K
covers the nine-month transition period from April 4, 1999 to January 1, 2000.
For purposes of this report and for ease of presentation, December 31 or
March 31 has been utilized as the fiscal year end date for all financial
statement captions contained herein. Additionally, for purposes of this report
the nine month fiscal period ended January 1, 2000 is referred to as "the nine
months ended December 31, 1999 or "fiscal period 1999". The fiscal periods ended
April 3, 1999 and March 28, 1998, respectively, are referred to as "the fiscal
year ended March 31, 1999" and "the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998", or
"fiscal year 1999" and "fiscal year 1998", respectively.

PLD MARKET BACKGROUND

    Three principal types of digital integrated circuits are used in most
electronic systems: microprocessors, memory and logic. Microprocessors are used
for control and computing tasks, memory is used to store programming
instructions and data, and logic is employed to manage the interchange and
manipulation of digital signals within a system. Logic contains interconnected
groupings of simple logical "AND" and logical "OR" functions, commonly described
as "gates." Typically, complex combinations of individual gates are required to
implement the specialized logic functions required for systems applications.
While system designers use a relatively small number of standard architectures
to meet their microprocessor and memory needs, they require a wide variety of
logic circuits in order to achieve end product differentiation.

    Logic circuits are found in a wide range of today's digital electronic
equipment including communication, computing, industrial and military systems.
According to World Semiconductor Trade Statistics, a semiconductor industry
association, logic accounted for approximately 27% of the estimated
$130 billion worldwide digital integrated circuit market in 1999. The logic
market encompasses, among other segments, standard logic, custom-designed ASICs,
which include conventional gate-arrays, standard cells and full custom logic
circuits, and PLDs.

    Manufacturers of electronic equipment are increasingly challenged to bring
differentiated products to market quickly. These competitive pressures often
preclude the use of custom-designed ASICs, which generally entail significant
design risks and time delay. Standard logic products, an alternative to custom-

                                       2
<PAGE>
designed ASICs, limit a manufacturer's flexibility to adequately customize an
end system. PLDs address this inherent dilemma. PLDs are standard products,
purchased by systems manufacturers in a "blank" state, that can be custom
configured into a virtually unlimited number of specific logic functions by
programming the device with electrical signals. PLDs give system designers the
ability to quickly create their own custom logic functions to provide product
differentiation without sacrificing rapid time to market. Certain PLD products,
including our own, are reprogrammable, meaning that the logic configuration can
be modified, if needed, after the initial programming. ISP PLDs, pioneered by
us, extend the flexibility of standard reprogrammable PLDs by allowing the
system designer to configure and reconfigure the logic functions of the PLD with
standard 5-volt or 3.3-volt power supplies without removing the PLD from the
system board.

    The PLD market has two primary segments: low-density PLDs (less than 1,000
logic gates) and high-density PLDs (greater than 1,000 logic gates).
High-density PLD devices include devices based on both the CPLD and field
programmable gate array, or FPGA, architectures.

    Products based on these alternative high-density PLD architectures are
generally optimal for different types of logic functions, although many logic
functions can be implemented using either architecture. CPLDs are characterized
by a regular building block structure of wide-input logic cells, called
macrocells, and use of a centralized logic interconnect scheme. CPLDs are
optimal for control logic applications, such as state machines, bus arbitration,
encoders, decoders and sequencers. FPGAs are characterized by a narrow-input
logic cell and use a distributed interconnect scheme. FPGAs are optimal for
register intensive and data path logic applications such as interface logic and
arithmetic functions. We believe that a substantial portion of high-density PLD
customers utilize both CPLD and FPGA architectures within a single system
design, partitioning logic functions across multiple devices to optimize overall
system performance and cost.

TECHNOLOGY

    We believe that our proprietary E(2)CMOS-Registered Trademark- technology is
the preferred process technology for PLD products due to its inherent
performance, reprogrammability and testability benefits. E(2)CMOS technology,
through its fundamental ability to be programmed and erased electronically,
serves as the foundation for our ISP products.

    We pioneered the development of ISP products which utilize 5-volt or
3.3-volt programming signals and, as a result, can be configured and
reconfigured by a system designer without being removed from the printed circuit
board. Standard E(2)CMOS PLDs require a 12-volt programming signal and therefore
must be removed from the printed circuit board and programmed using specialized
hardware. ISP devices offer enhanced flexibility versus standard PLDs and
provide significant customer benefits. ISP devices can allow customers to reduce
design cycle times, accelerate time to market, reduce prototyping costs, reduce
manufacturing costs and lower inventory requirements. ISP devices can also
provide customers the opportunity to perform simplified and cost-effective field
reconfiguration through a data file transferred by computer disk or serial data
signal.

PRODUCTS

ISP PRODUCTS

    We first entered the ISP market in 1992 and currently offer eleven distinct
families of proprietary ISP products, each consisting of multiple devices. We
are currently shipping over 300 performance, package

                                       3
<PAGE>
and temperature range combinations of ISP products. The key features of our CPLD
product families are described in the table below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                               SPEED     PROPAGATION DELAY                    SURFACE
                               (MHZ)       (NANOSECONDS)         GATES       MOUNT PINS
                              --------   -----------------   -------------   ----------
<S>                           <C>        <C>                 <C>             <C>
ispLSI-Registered Trademark-
  1000/E/EA.................    200             4.0           2,000-8,000       44-128
ispLSI 2000E/VE.............    225             3.5           1,000-8,000       44-208
ispLSI 3000/E...............    125             7.5           7,000-20,000     160-432
ispLSI 5000V................    125             7.5          12,000-24,000     208-388
ispLSI 8000/V...............    125             8.5          25,000-50,000     272-492
MACH-Registered Trademark-
  1/2.......................    180             5.0           1,000-5,000       44-100
MACH 4/LV/A.................    180             5.0           1,000-10,000      44-256
MACH 5/LV...................    180             5.5           5,000-20,000     100-352
</TABLE>

    Our newest product families, the MACH 4A, ispLSI 2000VE, ispLSI 5000V and
ispLSI 8000V, use new innovative architectures and are targeted towards the
emerging 3.3 volt CPLD market.

    We offer three additional ISP product families:

    ISPGAL-REGISTERED TRADEMARK-:  This proprietary family combines in-system
programmability with the industry standard 22V10 low-density PLD architecture.
Offered with performance of up to 200 MHz (5.0 nanosecond propagation delay),
the ispGAL family is available in both 5-volt and 3.3-volt operating supply
versions.

    ISPGDX-REGISTERED TRADEMARK-:  This family extends in-system programmability
to the circuit board level using an innovative digital cross-point switch
architecture. Offered with propagation delays as low as 5.0 nanoseconds, up to
160 I/O and complete pin-to-pin signal routing, the ispGDX is targeted towards
digital signal interconnect and interface applications.

    ISPPAC-REGISTERED TRADEMARK-:  First introduced in 1999, this three device
family extends in-system programmability to the analog market. The innovative
architecture of the ispPAC allows designers to quickly and easily program
resistor and capacitor values, gain and signal polarity and circuit interconnect
to implement a wide variety of analog circuits. The initial ispPAC products are
targeted towards filtering and signal conditioning applications and can replace
numerous discrete analog components. ispPAC designs are implemented and
programmed via a PC using our intuitive software development tool, PAC-Designer.

    We plan to continue to introduce new families of ISP products, as well as
improve the performance and reduce the manufacturing cost of our existing
product families based on market needs.

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT TOOLS

    All Lattice ISP products are supported by ispDesignEXPERT-TM-, our fourth
generation software development tool suite. Supporting both the PC and UNIX
platforms, ispDesignEXPERT allows a customer to enter, verify and synthesize a
design, perform logic simulation and timing analysis, assign I/O pins and
critical speed paths, debug and floorplan a design, execute automatic place and
route tasks and download a program to an ISP device. Seamlessly integrated with
third-party electronic design automation, or EDA, environments, ispDesignEXPERT
leverages customers' prior investments in products offered by Aldec, Cadence,
Mentor Graphics, OrCAD, Synopsys, Synplicity, Viewlogic and Veribest. In the
future, we plan to continue to enhance and expand the capability of our software
development tool suite.

    We also provide a variety of software algorithms that support in-system
programming of our ISP devices via multiple formats and mechanisms. These
software products include ispCODE-Registered Trademark-, Turbo
ispDOWNLOAD-Registered Trademark-, ispREMOTE-TM-, ispATE-TM-, ispSVF-TM- and
ispVM-TM-.

                                       4
<PAGE>
NON-ISP PRODUCTS

    We offer the industry's broadest line of low-density CMOS PLDs based on our
20 families of GAL-Registered Trademark-and PALCE-Registered Trademark- products
offered in over 200 speed, power, package and temperature range combinations.
PALCE products were originally introduced by Vantis and are generally compatible
with GAL products. GAL and PALCE devices range in complexity from approximately
200 to 1,000 logic gates and are typically assembled in 20-, 24- and 28-pin
standard dual in-line packages and in 20- and 28-pin standard plastic leaded
chip carrier packages. We offer standard 610, 16V8, 20V8 and 22V10 architectures
in a variety of speed grades, with propagation delays as low as 3.5 nanoseconds,
the highest performance in the industry. In addition, we offer several
proprietary extension architectures, the 6001/2, 16VP8, 16V8Z, 18V10, 20VP8,
20V8Z, 22V10Z, 24V10, 29M16, 20RA10, 20XV10 and 26V12, each of which is
optimized for specific applications. We also offer a full range of 3.3-volt
standard architectures, the 16LV8, 20LV8, 22LV10 and 26CLV12, in a variety of
speed grades, with propagation delays as low as 3.5 nanoseconds, the highest
performance in the industry.

    Our non-ISP products are supported by industry standard software and
hardware development tools marketed by independent manufacturers specifically
for PLD applications.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

    We place substantial emphasis on new product development and believe that
continued investment in this area is required to maintain our competitive
position. Our product development activities emphasize new proprietary ISP
products, enhancement of existing products and process technologies and
improvement of software development tools. Product development activities occur
in Hillsboro, Oregon; Silicon Valley, California; Austin, Texas; Colorado
Springs, Colorado; Corsham, England and Shanghai, China.

    Research and development expenses were $32.0 million in fiscal year 1998,
$33.2 million in fiscal year 1999 and $45.9 million for fiscal period 1999. We
expect to continue to make significant future investments in research and
development and expect our research and development expenses to approximately
double with the acquisition of Vantis.

OPERATIONS

    We do not manufacture our own silicon wafers and maintain strategic
relationships with large semiconductor manufacturers to source our finished
silicon wafers. This strategy allows us to focus our internal resources on
product, process and market development, and eliminates the fixed cost of owning
and operating manufacturing facilities. We are also able to take advantage of
the ongoing advanced process technology dedicated development efforts of
semiconductor manufacturers. In addition, all of our assembly operations are
performed by outside suppliers. We perform certain test operations and
reliability and quality assurance processes internally. We have achieved an ISO
9001 quality certification, an indication of our high internal operational
standards.

WAFER FABRICATION

    The majority of our silicon wafer requirements have historically been
supplied by Seiko Epson in Japan pursuant to an agreement with EEA, an
affiliated U.S. distributor of Seiko Epson. We negotiate wafer volumes, prices
and terms with Seiko Epson and EEA on a periodic basis. We also receive silicon
wafers from the UMC Group in Taiwan pursuant to a series of agreements entered
into in 1995. Wafer prices and other purchase terms related to this commitment
are subject to periodic adjustment. Currently, the substantial majority of the
silicon wafers for Vantis products are manufactured by AMD pursuant to an
agreement first entered into in 1996 and subsequently amended and restated at
the time of our acquisition of Vantis. A significant interruption or shortage in
our wafer supply or a significant or unexpected deterioration in wafer quality
or yield levels achieved could have a material adverse effect on our business.
See "--Licenses and Agreements."

                                       5
<PAGE>
ASSEMBLY

    After wafer fabrication and initial testing, we ship wafers to independent
subcontractors for assembly. During assembly, wafers are separated into
individual die and encapsulated in plastic or ceramic packages. Presently, we
have qualified long-term assembly partners in Hong Kong, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.

TESTING

    We electrically test the die on each wafer prior to shipment for assembly.
Following assembly, prior to customer shipment, each product undergoes final
testing and quality assurance procedures. Final testing on certain products is
performed by independent contractors in Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea,
Taiwan, Thailand and the United States.

MARKETING, SALES AND CUSTOMERS

    We sell our products directly to end customers through a network of
independent manufacturers' representatives and indirectly through a network of
independent distributors. We also employ a direct sales management and field
applications engineering organization to support our end customers and indirect
sales resources. Our end customers are primarily OEMs in the fields of
communication, computing, industrial and military systems.

    At January 1, 2000 we utilized 23 manufacturers' representatives and three
distributors in North America. Arrow Electronics and Avnet provide full
distribution coverage. We have also established export sales channels in over 30
foreign countries through a network of over 30 sales representatives and
distributors. Approximately one-half of our North American sales and the
majority of our export sales are made through distributors.

    We protect each of our North American distributors and some of our foreign
distributors against reductions in published prices, and expect to continue this
policy in the foreseeable future. We also allow returns from these distributors
of unsold products under certain conditions. For these reasons, we do not
recognize revenue until products are resold by these distributors to an end
customer.

    We provide technical and marketing support to our end customers with
engineering staff based at our headquarters, design centers and selected field
sales offices. We maintain numerous domestic and international field sales
offices in major metropolitan areas.

    Export sales as a percentage of our total revenue were 51% in fiscal year
1998, 50% in fiscal year 1999 and 53% in fiscal period 1999. Both export and
domestic sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the exception of sales to
Japan, which are dominated in yen. If our export sales decline significantly
there would be a material adverse impact on our business.

    Our products are sold to a large and diverse group of customers. No
individual end customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenue in fiscal
year 1998 or 1999 or fiscal period 1999. No export sales to any individual
country accounted for more than 10% of total revenue in fiscal years 1998 or
1999 or fiscal period 1999.

BACKLOG

    Our backlog of scheduled and released orders as of January 1, 2000 was
approximately $83.4 million as compared to approximately $63.5 million as of
April 3, 1999. This backlog consists of direct OEM and distributor orders
scheduled for delivery within the next 90 days. Distributor orders accounted for
the majority of the backlog in both periods. Direct OEM customer orders may be
changed, rescheduled or cancelled under certain circumstances without penalty
prior to shipment. Additionally, distributor orders generally may be changed,
rescheduled or cancelled without penalty prior to shipment. Furthermore,

                                       6
<PAGE>
distributor shipments are subject to rights of return and price adjustment.
Revenue associated with distributor shipments is not recognized until the
product is resold to an end customer. Typically, the majority of our revenue
results from orders placed and filled within the same period. Such orders are
referred to as "turns orders". By definition, turns orders are not captured in a
backlog measurement made at the beginning of a period. We do not anticipate a
significant change in this business pattern. For all these reasons, backlog as
of any particular date should not be used as a predictor of revenue for any
future period.

COMPETITION

    The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and characterized by
rapid rates of technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion. Our
current and potential competitors include a broad range of semiconductor
companies from large, established companies to emerging companies, many of which
have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources.

    The principal competitive factors in the PLD market include product
features, price, customer support, and sales, marketing and distribution
strength. The availability of competitive software development tools is also
critical. In addition to product features such as density, speed, power
consumption, reprogrammability, design flexibility and reliability, competition
in the PLD market occurs on the basis of price and market acceptance of specific
products and technology. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to
each of these factors. We intend to continue to address these competitive
factors by working to continually introduce product enhancements and new
products, by seeking to establish our products as industry standards in their
respective markets, and by working to reduce the manufacturing cost of our
products.

    In the ISP PLD market, we primarily compete directly with Altera and Xilinx,
both of whom offer competing products. We also compete indirectly with other PLD
suppliers as well as other semiconductor companies who provide non-PLD based
logic solutions. Although to date we have not experienced significant
competition from companies located outside the United States, such companies may
become a more significant competitive factor in the future. Competition may also
increase as we and our current competitors seek to expand our markets. Any such
increases in competition could have a material adverse effect on our operating
results.

PATENTS

    We seek to protect our products and wafer fabrication process technologies
primarily through patents, trade secrecy measures, copyrights, mask work
protection, trademark registrations, licensing restrictions, confidentiality
agreements and other approaches designed to protect proprietary information.
There can be no assurance that others may not independently develop competitive
technology not covered by our intellectual property rights or that measures we
take to protect our technology will be effective.

    We hold numerous domestic, European and Japanese patents and have patent
applications pending in the United States, Japan and Europe. There can be no
assurance that pending patent applications or other applications that may be
filed will result in issued patents, or that any issued patents will survive
challenges to their validity. Although we believe that our patents have value,
there can be no assurance that our patents, or any additional patents that may
be issued in the future, will provide meaningful protection from competition. We
believe that our success will depend primarily upon the technical expertise,
experience, creativity and the sales and marketing abilities of our personnel.

    Patent and other proprietary rights infringement claims are common in our
industry. There can be no assurance that, with respect to any claim made against
us, we could obtain a license on terms or under conditions that would not have a
material adverse effect on our business.

                                       7
<PAGE>
LICENSES AND AGREEMENTS

SEIKO EPSON/EPSON ELECTRONICS AMERICA (EEA)

    EEA, an affiliated U.S. distributor of Seiko Epson, has agreed to provide us
with manufactured wafers in quantities based on six-month rolling forecasts. We
have committed to buy certain minimum quantities of wafers per month. Wafers for
our products are manufactured in Japan at Seiko Epson's wafer fabrication
facilities and are delivered to us by EEA. Prices for the wafers obtained from
EEA are reviewed and adjusted periodically.

    In March 1997, we entered into an advance production payment agreement with
Seiko Epson and EEA under which we agreed to advance approximately
$85.0 million, payable upon completion of specific milestones, to Seiko Epson to
finance construction of an eight-inch sub-micron semiconductor wafer
manufacturing facility. The timing of the payments is related to certain
milestones in the development of the facility. Under the terms of the agreement,
the advance is to be repaid with semiconductor wafers over a multi-year period.
The agreement calls for wafers to be supplied by Seiko Epson through EEA
pursuant to purchase agreements concluded with EEA. We also have an option under
the agreement to advance Seiko Epson an additional $60.0 million for additional
wafer supply under similar terms. The first payment under this agreement,
approximately $17.0 million, was made during fiscal 1997. During fiscal 1998, we
made two additional payments aggregating approximately $34.2 million.

UMC GROUP

    In September 1995, we entered into a series of agreements with UMC pursuant
to which we agreed to join UMC and several other companies to form a separate
Taiwanese company, UICC, for the purpose of building and operating an advanced
semiconductor manufacturing facility in Taiwan. Under the terms of the
agreement, we invested approximately $49.7 million between fiscal 1996 and
fiscal 1998 for an approximate 10% equity interest in UICC and the right to
purchase a percentage of the facility's wafer production at market prices.

    In October 1996, we entered into an agreement with Utek Corporation, a
public Taiwanese company in the wafer foundry business that became affiliated
with the UMC Group in 1998, pursuant to which we agreed to make a series of
equity investments in Utek under specific terms. In exchange for these
investments we received the right to purchase a percentage of Utek's wafer
production. Under this agreement we have invested approximately $17.5 million in
three separate installments and currently own approximately 2.5 percent of the
outstanding equity of Utek.

    In June 1999, the board of directors of UICC and Utek and the board of
directors of UMC voted in favor of merging UICC and Utek into UMC. These mergers
became effective on January 3, 2000. After the mergers we own approximately
61 million shares of UMC common stock and have retained our capacity rights. Due
to regulatory restrictions, the majority of our UMC shares may not be sold until
July 2000. These regulatory restrictions will gradually expire between July 2000
and January 2004.

AMD

    In June 1999, as part of our acquisition of Vantis, we entered into a series
of agreements with AMD to support the continuing operations of Vantis.

    AMD has agreed to provide us with finished silicon wafers through September
2003 in quantities based either on a rolling six-month or an annual forecast. We
have committed to buy certain minimum quantities of wafers and AMD has committed
to supply certain quantities of wafers during this period. Wafers for our
products are manufactured in the United States at multiple AMD wafer fabrication
facilities. Prices for these wafers will be reviewed and adjusted periodically.

                                       8
<PAGE>
    We have also entered into an agreement with AMD pursuant to which we have
cross-licensed Vantis patents with AMD patents, having an effective filing date
on or before June 15, 1999, related to PLD products. This cross-license was made
on a worldwide, non-exclusive and royalty-free basis.

    As part of our acquisition of Vantis Corporation, we have acquired certain
third-party license rights held by Vantis prior to the acquisition. Included are
rights to use certain Xilinx patents to manufacture, market and sell products.

EMPLOYEES

    As of January 1, 2000 we had 916 full-time employees. We believe that our
future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and
retain highly skilled technical and management personnel. None of our employees
is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced a
work stoppage and consider our employee relations good.
