Item 1.                                   BUSINESS

 

We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications.  Our product portfolio comprises the PICmicro® field–reprogrammable (Flash) RISC microcontrollers which serve 8 and 16-bit embedded control applications, and a broad spectrum of high-performance linear and mixed-signal, power management and thermal management devices.  We also offer complementary microperipheral products including interface devices, Serial EEPROMS, and our application-specific standard products (ASSPs).  This synergistic product portfolio targets thousands of applications and a growing demand for high-performance designs in the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets.  Our quality systems are ISO/TS16949 (2002 version) certified.

 

Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989.  In this Form 10-K, “we,” “us,” and “our” each refers to Microchip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries.  Our executive offices are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number is (480) 792-7200.

 

Our Internet address is www.microchip.com.  We post the following filings on our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission:

 

•                  Our annual report on Form 10-K

•                  Our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q

•                  Our current reports on Form 8-K, and

•                  Any amendments to the above-listed reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

 

All SEC filings on our Web site are available free of charge.  The information on our Web site is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.

 

Industry Background

 

Competitive pressures require manufacturers of a wide variety of products to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost.  To address these requirements, manufacturers often use integrated circuit-based embedded control systems that enable them to:

 

•                  differentiate their products

•                  replace less efficient electromechanical control devices

•                  reduce the number of components in their system

•                  add product functionality

•                  decrease time to market for their products, and

•                  significantly reduce product cost.

 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Embedded control systems also facilitate the emergence of complete new classes of products.  Embedded control systems have been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of markets worldwide, including:

 

•     automotive comfort, safety and entertainment applications
  
 
•     remote control devices
  
 
•     handheld tools
  
 
•     home appliances
  
 
•     portable computers
  
 
•     robotic applications
  
 
•     cordless and cellular telephone  accessories
  
 
•     motor controls
  
 
•     security systems
  
 
•     educational and entertainment devices, and
  
 
•     consumer electronics.
  
 

 

Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the principal active, and sometimes sole, component.  A microcontroller is a self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a central processing unit, non-volatile program memory, random access memory for data storage and various input/output peripheral capabilities.  In addition to the microcontroller, a complete embedded control system incorporates application-specific software and may include specialized peripheral device controllers and internal or external non-volatile memory components, such as EEPROMs, to store additional program software, and various analog and interface products.

 

The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for microcontrollers one of the largest segments of the semiconductor market.  Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit architectures.  Although 4-bit microcontrollers are relatively inexpensive, they generally lack the minimum performance and features required for product differentiation and are typically used only to produce basic functionality in products.  While traditional 16 and 32-bit architectures provide very high performance, they are generally more expensive for most high-volume embedded control applications, typically costing significantly more than the cost of an 8-bit microcontroller.  As a result, manufacturers of competitive, high-volume products have found 8-bit microcontrollers to be the most cost-effective embedded control solution.

 

Most microcontrollers shipped today are ROM-based and must be programmed by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing, resulting in 10 to 12-week lead times, based on current market conditions, for delivery of such microcontrollers.  In addition to delayed product introduction, these long lead times can result in potential inventory obsolescence and temporary factory shutdowns when changes in the firmware are required. To address these issues, some suppliers offer programmable microcontrollers that can be configured by the customer in the customer’s manufacturing line, thus minimizing lead-time and inventory risks when the inevitable firmware changes occur.  While these microcontrollers were initially expensive relative to ROM-based microcontrollers, manufacturing technology has evolved over the last several years to the point where reprogrammable microcontrollers are now available for little to no premium over ROM-based microcontrollers, thus providing significant value to microcontroller customers.  As a result, reprogrammable microcontrollers are the fastest growing segment of the 8-bit microcontroller market.

 

Our Products

 

Our strategic focus is on embedded control products, including:

 

•                  microcontrollers

•                  high-performance linear and mixed-signal devices

•                  power management and thermal management devices

•                  smart battery management devices, and

•                  complementary microperipheral products including interface devices, Serial EEPROMs, and our patented KEELOQ® security devices.

 

We provide highly cost-effective embedded control products that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product integration by our customers.

 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Microcontrollers

 

We offer a broad family of microcontroller products featuring a unique, proprietary architecture marketed under the PIC® brand name.  We believe that our PIC® product family is a price/performance leader in the worldwide microcontroller market.  We have shipped over 3 billion PIC® microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their introduction in 1990.  Our PIC® products are designed for applications requiring field-programmability, high performance, low power and cost effectiveness.  They feature a variety of memory technology configurations, low voltage and power, small footprint and ease of use.  Over the last three years, all of our new microcontroller product development has been focused on reprogrammable (Flash) based PIC microcontrollers.  Our performance results from an exclusive product architecture which features dual data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard dual-bus architecture; a reduced instruction set, referred to as RISC; and variable length instructions; all of which provide significant speed advantages over alternative single-bus, CISC architectures.  With over 210 microcontrollers in our product portfolio, we target the entire performance range of 8-bit microcontrollers.  Additionally, our scalable product architecture allows us to successfully target both the entry-level of the 16-bit microcontroller market, as well as the higher end of the 4-bit microcontroller marketplace, significantly enlarging our addressable market.

 

We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the development and production of our PIC® family of microcontroller products.  Our extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our advanced, low cost user programmability feature by incorporating non-volatile memory, such as Flash, EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller, and to be a leader in reprogrammable (Flash) microcontroller product offerings.

 

Digital Signal Controllers

 

We recently began production shipments of our Digital Signal Controller product line.  Our family of dsPICä microcontrollers is a series of high-performance 16-bit microcontrollers, combining the many features and capabilities of our PIC® family of 8-bit microcontrollers with the high-performance capabilities of a digital signal processor (DSP).  During the last three fiscal years, all of our Digital Signal Controller product development has been focused on reprogrammable (Flash) products.

 

Our dsPICä product family will offer a broad development tool suite of hardware and software to ease the effort of the designer, high-performance Harvard dual-bus architecture and a proliferation of integrated peripherals to monitor and control many aspects of the embedded control product.  With its field-re-programmability, program memory, low power, small footprint and ease of use, we believe that our dsPICä microcontrollers will significantly enlarge our addressable market.

 

Development Systems

 

We offer a comprehensive set of low cost and easy-to-learn application development tools.  These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily program a PIC® microcontroller for specific applications and are a key factor for obtaining design wins.

 

Our family of development tools operates in the standard Windows® environment on standard PC hardware.  Entry-level systems, which include an assembler and programmer or in-circuit debugging hardware are priced at less than $200.  Fully configured systems that provide in-circuit emulation hardware are priced between $2,000 and $3,500.  Customers moving from entry-level designs to those requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve their investment in learning and tools as they migrate to future PIC® devices since all systems share the same integrated development environment.

 

Many independent companies also develop and market application development tools and systems that support our standard microcontroller product architecture.  Currently, there are more than 150 third-party tool suppliers worldwide whose products support our proprietary microcontroller architecture.

 

We believe that familiarity with and adoption of our, and third-party, development systems by an increasing number of product designers will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products.  These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of application-specific products from our standard microcontrollers.  To date, we have shipped more than 300,000 development systems.

 

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

ASSPs
 
Our application-specific standard products, referred to as ASSPs, are specialized products designed to perform specific end-user applications, compared to our other products that are more general purpose in nature.  Our ASSP device families currently include, among others, the KEELOQ® family of secure data transmission products and smart battery management products.

 

Analog and Interface Products

 

Our analog and interface products now consist of several families with over 380 power management, linear, mixed-signal, thermal management and interface products.  At the end of fiscal 2004, our mixed-signal analog and interface products were being shipped to more than 8,900 end customers.

 

We continue marketing and selling our analog and interface products into our existing microcontroller customer base, which we refer to as our analog “attach” strategy, as well as to new customers.  In addition to our “attach” strategy, we market and sell other products that may not fit our traditional PIC® microcontroller and memory products customer base.  We market these, and all of our products, based on a “functions” approach, targeted to solve different problems in development of our customers’ products.

 

Memory Products

 

Our memory products consist primarily of serial electrically erasable programmable read only memory, referred to as EEPROMs.  We sell these devices primarily into the embedded control market, and we are one of the largest suppliers of such devices worldwide.  EEPROM products are used for non-volatile program and data storage in systems where such data must be either modified frequently or retained for long periods.  Serial EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of very small devices.

 

We address customer requirements by offering products with extremely small package sizes and very low operating voltages for both read and write functions.  High performance circuitry and microcode are also available to reduce power consumption when a device is not in use, while permitting immediate operating capability when required.  Our memory products also feature long data retention and high erase/write endurance.

 

Manufacturing

 

Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and test.  The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.  By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and much of our assembly and test operations, and by employing proprietary statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.  Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.  This control also allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and testing profit margin.

 

Our manufacturing facilities are located in:

 

•                  Chandler, Arizona (probe operations)

•                  Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2)

•                  Puyallup, Washington (Fab 3) (non-operational-held for sale)

•                  Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4), and

•                  Bangkok, Thailand (assembly and test).

 

Wafer Fabrication
 
On April 7, 2003, we announced our intention to close our Chandler, Arizona (Fab 1) wafer fabrication facility and integrate certain Fab 1 personnel and processes into our Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) wafer fabrication facility.  We completed this integration process during the three-month period ended June 30, 2003.  The closure of Fab 1 and the integration of certain Fab 1 personnel into our Fab 2 operations resulted in a reduction in force of 207 employees who were either directly involved in our manufacturing operations or provided support functions to Fab 1.

 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

The facility where Fab 1 is located is an integral part of our overall campus in Chandler, Arizona.  Within this same facility resides our wafer probe, mask making and other manufacturing related activities.  We have no specific plans for utilizing the space formerly housing the wafer fabrication operations, and intend to leave it in an idle status.

 

Fab 2 currently produces 8-inch wafers and supports manufacturing processes between 0.35 and 5.0 microns.  During fiscal 2004, Fab 2 operated at approximately 91% of its capacity compared to approximately 88% during fiscal 2003.  Operating at higher percentages of capacity has a positive impact on operating results due to the relatively high fixed costs inherent in our wafer fabrication manufacturing.

 

Fab 3 is non-operational and is currently classified as an asset held-for-sale.  See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Special Charges – Fab 3 Impairment Charge,” below at page 33, for a discussion of the status of Fab 3.

 

Fab 4 was acquired in August 2002 and began production on October 31, 2003.  Fab 4 produces 8-inch wafers using 0.5 micron manufacturing processes and is capable of supporting technologies below 0.18 microns.  We are in the early states of ramping our production activities at Fab 4.  Fab 4 has an installed equipment base that will allow us to produce an additional $600 to $800 million in annual product sales.  We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2 and Fab 4 will provide sufficient capacity to allow us to respond to increases in future demand.

 

We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs.  We believe that our successful transition to more advanced process technologies is important for us to remain competitive.  Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any such transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

 

We also contract with third-party wafer foundries to fabricate less than 5% of our total production, primarily in our analog and smart battery management product families.  We have transitioned many of these products to our own wafer fabrication facilities and plan to continue to do so over time.  On a strategic basis, we will continue to use third-party foundries to shorten our product design cycle on certain key technologies and products.

 

Assembly and Test
 
We perform product assembly and testing at our facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand.  At March 31, 2004, approximately 71% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility.  As of March 31, 2004, our Thailand facility was testing substantially all of our wafer production.  As of April 30, 2004, we had substantially completed a 67,000 square foot expansion at our Thailand facility that, once placed in service, will increase the facility’s test capacity by approximately 80%.  The expansion area is expected to be placed in service in fiscal 2005.  We also use third-party assembly and test contractors in several Asian countries for the balance of our assembly and test requirements.

 

General Matters Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations
 
We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our microcontroller and memory products.  We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs.  While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.  This allows us to more fully absorb our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly.  Our engineers utilize advanced CAD tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently.

 

Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields have significant positive effects on our gross profit and overall operating results.  During fiscal 2004, our focus on manufacturing productivity allowed us to maintain average wafer fab line yields at our facilities in excess of 95%.  Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and selective upgrading of our manufacturing facilities and equipment.  Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results.  The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment.  As is

 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.  Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels.

 

Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards.  We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards.  In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases.  We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders.  An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources could harm our business.

 

Our reliance on third parties for a portion of wafer fabrication and assembly and testing involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.  While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of these third-party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels.

 

The foregoing statements related to the equipment base at Fab 4 allowing us to produce an additional $600 to $800 million in annual product sales, the combined capacity of Fab 2 and Fab 4 providing sufficient capacity to allow us to respond to future increases in demand and the transition to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs are forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially because of the following factors, among others: changes in utilization of our current manufacturing capacity; unanticipated costs in continuing to ramp production at Fab 4; our ability to increase production at Fab 2; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the Portland, Oregon area; changes in demand for products and the products of our customers; changes in demand for our analog and battery management products; supply disruption; absorption of fixed costs, labor and other direct manufacturing costs; fluctuations in production yields; production efficiencies and overall capacity utilization; changes in product mix; competitive pressures on prices; labor unrest; political instability and expropriation; and other general economic conditions.

 

Research and Development (R&D)

 

We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.  We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.  Our current R&D activities focus on the design of new 8-bit microcontrollers, 16-bit digital signal controllers, memory and mixed-signal products, ASSPs, new development systems, and software and application-specific software libraries.  We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products.

 

In fiscal 2004, our R&D expenses were $85.4 million, compared to $88.0 million in fiscal 2003 and $81.7 million in fiscal 2002.

 

Sales and Distribution

 

General

 

We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors.

 

Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia.  We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia.  We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market.  The majority of our field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment.  We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products.  The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for FSEs and distributor sales teams.  FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars in major cities around the world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end-user support.

 

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Distribution

 

Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.  We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.

 

In fiscal 2004, we derived 64% of our net sales from sales through distributors and 36% of our net sales from direct sales to original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEM customers.  Distributors accounted for 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2003 and 62% of our net sales in fiscal 2002.  Our two largest distributors combined accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales for fiscal 2004 and 21% of our net sales in fiscal 2003.  In fiscal 2004, our two largest distributors accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of our net sales.  In fiscal 2003 and 2002, one distributor accounted for 12% and 13%, respectively, of our net sales.  No other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2004, 2003 or 2002.

 

We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advanced notice.  The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns.

 

Distributors generally have broad-based rights to return product to us.  As revenue on distributor shipments is not recognized until the distributors sell our product on to their end customers, distributor returns have no impact on our revenue.

 

We also grant certain credits to our third-party distributors and also offer these distributors price protection.  The credits are granted to the distributors on specifically identified pieces of the distributors’ business to allow them to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our products to their end customers.  The credits are on a per unit basis and are not given to the distributor until they provide information regarding the sale to their end customer.  The effect of granting these credits establishes the net selling price from us to our distributors for the products and results in the net revenue recognized by us when the product is sold by the distributors to their end customers.

 

We reduce product pricing through price protection based on market conditions, competitive considerations and other factors.  Price protection is granted to third-party distributors on the inventory that they have on hand at the date the price protection is offered.  When we reduce the selling price of our products, it allows the distributors to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivables balances based on the new price of the inventory it has on hand as of the date of the price reduction.  There is no revenue recognition impact from the price protections.

 

We do not offer material incentive programs to our third-party distributors.

 

Sales by Geography
 
Sales by geography for fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 were as follows (dollars in thousands):

 

 
  
 Year Ended March 31,
  
 
 
  
 2004
  
 %
  
 2003
  
 %
  
 2002
  
 %
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Americas
  
 $
 219,641
  
 31.4
  
 $
 219,504
  
 33.7
  
 $
 192,924
  
 33.8
  
 
Europe
  
 194,187
  
 27.8
  
 177,727
  
 27.3
  
 179,355
  
 31.4
  
 
Asia
  
 285,432
  
 40.8
  
 254,231
  
 39.0
  
 198,975
  
 34.8
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Total Sales
  
 $
 699,260
  
 100.0
 %
 $
 651,462
  
 100.0
 %
 $
 571,254
  
 100.0
 %
 

 

Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products.  Americas sales include sales to customers in the United States, Canada, Central America and South America.

 

Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 71% of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, and approximately 69% of our net sales in fiscal 2002.

 

8


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Sales to customers in China, including Hong Kong, accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2003.  We did not have sales into any other foreign countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during the periods covered by this report.

 

Our international sales are predominately U.S. Dollar denominated.  Although foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we have not experienced any material difficulties as a result of export restrictions to date.

 

Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks as described under the heading, “We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks,” on page 15.

 

Backlog

 

As of April 23, 2004, our backlog was approximately $209.9 million, compared to $106.6 million as of April 25, 2003.  Our backlog includes all purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months.

 

We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory within a short time after we receive an order.  Our business and, to a large extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules.  Orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the customer’s option without significant penalty.  Thus, while backlog is useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable measure of sales for any future period.   During the last two quarters of fiscal 2004, our product lead times extended and resulted in customers providing us with additional backlog leading to improved visibility.

 

Competition

 

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change.  We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.  Emerging companies may also increase their participation in the market for embedded control applications.  Furthermore, capacity in the semiconductor industry is generally increasing over time and such increased capacity or improved product availability could adversely affect our competitive position.

 

We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including the following product characteristics:

 

•                  speed
  
 
•                  functionality
  
 
•                  density
  
 
•                  power consumption
  
 
•                  reliability
  
 
•                  packaging alternatives
  
 
•                  price, and
  
 
•                  availability.
  
 

 

We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include:

 

•                  ease of use

•                  functionality of application development systems

•                  dependable delivery and quality, and

•                  technical service and support.

 

We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business.

 

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks

 

We maintain a portfolio of United States and foreign patents, expiring on various dates between 2005 and 2022.  We also have numerous additional United States and foreign patent applications pending.  While we intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological

 

9


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

skills and innovative abilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize product developments, rather than on our patents.  Our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us.  In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.

 

We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and cross-licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights on certain of our products or technologies.  We investigate all such notices and respond as we believe is appropriate.  Based on industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain any necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we cannot assure that licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation would not ensue or that damages for any past infringement would not be assessed.  Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and divert management effort, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others.  The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of infringement claims, could harm our business.  See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings,” beginning below at page 18.

 

Environmental Regulation

 

We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes.  Our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our activities are conducted in compliance with such regulations.  Any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations.  Any failure by us to control adequately the storage, use and disposal of regulated substances could result in future liabilities.

 

Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations.  While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from environmental regulations, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations.

 

Employees

 

As of April 30, 2004, we had 3,678 employees.  Approximately 43% of our employees work at our Thailand facility.  None of our employees in the U.S. or Thailand are represented by a labor organization.  We have never had a work stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good.

 

Executive Officers

 

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 23, 2004:

 

Name
  
 Age
  
 Position
 
Steve Sanghi
  
 48
  
 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
 
Steve Drehobl
  
 43
  
 Vice President, Security, Microcontroller & Technology Division
 
David S. Lambert
  
 52
  
 Vice President, Fab Operations
 
Mitchell R. Little
  
 51
  
 Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications
 
Ganesh Moorthy
  
 44
  
 Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Memory Division
 
Gordon W. Parnell
  
 54
  
 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
 
Richard J. Simoncic
  
 40
  
 Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division
 

 

Mr. Sanghi has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991, and Chairman of the Board since October 1993.  He has served as a director since August 1990.  Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India.

 

10


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Mr. Drehobl has served as Vice President of the Security, Microcontroller, and Technology Division since July 2001. He has been employed by Microchip since August 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since February 1997.  Mr. Drehobl holds a Bachelor of Technology degree from the University of Dayton.

 

Mr. Lambert has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November 1993.  From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing Engineering, and from 1988 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab Operations.  Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati.

 

Mr. Little has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications since July 2000.  From April 1998 through July 2000, he served as Vice President, Americas Sales.  From November 1995 to April 1998, he served as Vice President, Standard Microcontroller and ASSP Division.  Mr. Little holds a BSET degree from United Electronics Institute.

 

Mr. Moorthy has served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Memory Division, since December 2003.  From November 2001 to December 2003 he served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Automotive Division.  From August 2000 through November 2001, he served as Chairman and CEO of Cybercilium, Inc, a business intelligence solutions provider for mid-market companies.  From 1981 through July 2000, Mr. Moorthy worked at Intel Corporation in various operations and management capacities, including his last assignment as Director of Operations for Intel’s Home Products Group.  Mr. Moorthy holds an MBA in Marketing from National University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Bombay.

 

Mr. Parnell has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2000.  He served as Vice President, Controller and Treasurer from April 1993 to May 2000.  Mr. Parnell holds a finance/accounting qualification with the Association of Certified Accountants from Edinburgh College, Scotland.

 

Mr. Simoncic has served as Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division since September 1999.  From January 1996 to September 1999, he served as Vice President, Memory and Specialty Products Division.  Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology.

 

Additional Factors That May Affect Our Results of Operations

 

When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

 

Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability.

 

Our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control.  Some of the factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include:

 

•                  changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers

•                  unanticipated costs or delays in continuing to ramp production at Fab 4

•                  the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory

•                  levels of inventories at our customers

•                  changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields

•                  our ability to secure sufficient assembly and testing capacity

•                  competitive developments including pricing pressures

•                  the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter

•                  the level of sell-through of our products through distribution

•                  changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality

•                  constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers’ ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers

•                  costs and outcomes of any tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues

 

11


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

•                  disruptions in our business or our customers’ businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or disruptions in the transportation system

•                  property damage or other losses which are not covered by insurance, and

•                  general economic, industry or political conditions in the United States or internationally.

 

We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of future performance.  In future periods our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.

 

Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields.

 

The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.  Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels.

 

Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity.  Lower capacity utilization results in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins.

 

If we do not ramp our production activities at our Fab 4 (Gresham, Oregon) wafer fabrication facility in a timely manner, our anticipated revenues and gross margins may be adversely impacted.

 

We acquired Fab 4, located in Gresham, Oregon, in August 2002.  Fab 4 commenced production on October 31, 2003.  Bringing Fab 4 to higher levels of production involves significant risks, including:

 

•     successful implementation of our manufacturing processes at Fab 4

•     potential shortages of materials and skilled labor

•     unforeseen environmental or engineering problems; and

•     unanticipated costs.

 

Any of these risks could delay the ramp-up of Fab 4, and could result in significant additional costs or reduce our anticipated revenues.

 

As a result of these and other factors, Fab 4 may not increase production when anticipated or within budget.  Also, we may be unable to achieve adequate manufacturing yields in Fab 4 in a timely manner and our revenues may not increase in proportion to the anticipated increase in manufacturing capacity associated with Fab 4 which would harm our operating results.

 

We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments.

 

Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders.  We emphasize our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules.  Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business is relatively high in any particular quarter and reduces our visibility on future product shipments.  The percentage of turns orders in any given quarter fluctuates and depends on overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.

 

During fiscal 2003 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2004, our turns orders were at the high end of the range that we have experienced over the last several years.  During the last two quarters of fiscal 2004, our product lead times began to extend and resulted in customers providing us with additional backlog leading to improved visibility.  Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast.  If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will suffer.

 

12


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share.

 

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change.  We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.  Emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the market for embedded control applications.  We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business.

 

Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including:

 

•                  the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products

•                  our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies

•                  the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own products

•                  product introductions by our competitors

•                  the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market

•                  our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices

•                  our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights

•                  the quality of our customer service and our ability to address the needs of our customers, and

•                  general market and economic conditions.

 

Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.  The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM and non-proprietary analog and interface products have declined, over time.  We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressure in certain of our proprietary product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions.  We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices.  We have experienced in the past and expect to continue to experience in the future varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM products.

 

We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely impact our operating results.

 

We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel is intense in our market.

 

Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering and other personnel.  The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel is intense.  We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require.  The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business.  We have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team.

 

Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis.

 

Our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements.  The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including:

 

13


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

•                  proper new product selection

•                  timely completion and introduction of new product designs

•                  development of support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use, and

•                  market acceptance of our customers’ end products.

 

Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products.  In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance.  We may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results.

 

Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies.  Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures.  We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries.  Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

 

We are dependent on several third-party contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us.

 

We use several third-party contractors located throughout Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products.  We also rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of the wafer fabrication of our analog and smart battery management products.  Although we have reduced our dependence on third-party contractors over time, the disruption or termination of any of these sources could harm our business and operating results.  Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.  Our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor were to experience financial, operations or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels.  In such case, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products on a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us.

 

We may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs.

 

Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards.  We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards.  The raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases.  We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacements parts.  An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business.

 

Our business is highly dependent on selling through distributors.

 

Sales through distributors accounted for 64% of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2003.  Our two largest distributors together accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and approximately 21% of our net sales in fiscal 2003.  We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and our distributors may terminate their relationship with us with little or no advanced notice.

 

The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns.

 

Our operating results may be impacted by the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry.

 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by wide fluctuations of supply and demand.  The industry has experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity.  We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclicality by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly

 

14


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

replaced, to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments.  However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and may, in the future, experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions.

 

We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims.

 

We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters.  In particular, as discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, we are presently involved in patent infringement litigation with Philips Corporation.  In addition, as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties.  These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources.  If we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed.

 

Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities.

 

Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success.  To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes.  The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications.  In addition, our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us.  We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which can require significant financial and management resources.  In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.  Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us.

 

We do not have long-term contracts with our customers.

 

We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers.  When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer.  In the event of any early termination of a contract by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we would be able to rapidly replace that revenue source which would harm our financial results.

 

Business interruptions could harm our business.

 

Operations at any of our manufacturing facilities, or at any of our wafer fabrication or test and assembly subcontractors, may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications failure, fire, earthquake, floods, or other natural disasters.  If operations at any of our, or our subcontractors’, facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis.  If this occurs, we may experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms.  This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers.  In addition, business interruption insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business.

 

We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks.

 

Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales.  During fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, approximately 71% of our net sales were made to foreign customers.  We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers.  In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand.  We also use various foreign third-party contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements for our analog and smart battery management products.  Substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand.

 

15


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods in inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including:

 

•                  political, social and economic instability

•                  trade restrictions and changes in tariffs

•                  import and export license requirements and restrictions

•                  difficulties in staffing and managing international operations

•                  employment regulations

•                  disruptions in international transport or delivery

•                  fluctuations in currency exchange rates

•                  difficulties in collecting receivables

•                  economic slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us, and

•                  potentially adverse tax consequences.

 

If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer.

 

We are subject to stringent environmental regulation, which may force us to incur significant expenses.

 

We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process.  Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of operations.  Any such environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations.  Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities.  Environmental problems may occur that could subject us to future costs or liabilities.

 

Recently enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and related regulations could result in increased costs to us.

 

Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and recent rules enacted and proposed by the SEC, Nasdaq and the NYSE, are resulting in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements.  In particular, complying with the internal control audit requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 will result in increased internal efforts and higher fees from our independent accounting firm.  The new rules could make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage.  The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, on committees of our Board of Directors, or as executive officers.  We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs that we may incur as we implement these new and proposed rules.

 

Recent and proposed regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel.

 

Since our inception, we have used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages.  We believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain with Microchip.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has proposed changes to US GAAP that, if implemented, would require us to record a charge to earnings for the fair value of employee stock option grants, based on vesting beginning in fiscal 2006.  This pending regulation would negatively impact our earnings.  For example, recording a charge for employee stock options under SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” would have decreased net income by $36.8 million, $36.2 million and $29.4 million for fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  See also Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements – Significant Accounting Policies:  Stock Based Compensation.  In addition, new regulations implemented by The Nasdaq Stock Market requiring shareholder approval for all stock option plans as well as new regulations implemented by the New York Stock Exchange prohibiting NYSE member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity-compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future.  To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur compensation costs, change our equity compensation

 

16


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business.

 

The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors.

 

The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future.  The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:

 

•                  quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other technology companies

•                  actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors

•                  changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations

•                  changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance

•                  general conditions in the semiconductor industry, and

•                  worldwide economic and financial conditions.

 

In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies.  These broad market fluctuations and other factors may harm the market price of our common stock.
