ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our
customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our product
portfolio comprises the PICmicro(R) field-programmable RISC microcontrollers,
which serve 8 and 16-bit embedded control applications, and a broad spectrum of
high-performance linear and mixed-signal, power management and thermal
management devices. We also offer complementary microperipheral products
including interface devices, Serial EEPROMS, and our application-specific
standard products (ASSPs). This synergistic product portfolio targets thousands
of applications and a growing demand for high-performance designs in the
automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets.
Our quality systems are ISO 9001 (1994 version) and QS9000 (1998 version)
certified.

     Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. In
this Form 10-K, "we," "us," and "our" each refers to Microchip Technology
Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 2355
West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number
is (480) 792-7200.

     Our Internet address is WWW.MICROCHIP.COM. We post the following filings on
our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission:

     o    Our annual report on Form 10-K
     o    Our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q
     o    Our current reports on Form 8-K, and
     o    Any amendments to the above-listed reports filed or furnished pursuant
          to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

     All SEC filings on our Web site are available free of charge. The
information on our Web site is NOT incorporated into this Form 10-K.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Competitive pressures require manufacturers of a wide variety of products
to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or
reducing cost. To address these requirements, many manufacturers use integrated
circuit-based embedded control systems that provide an integrated solution for
application-specific control products. Embedded control systems enable our
customers to:

     o    differentiate their products
     o    replace less efficient electromechanical control devices
     o    add product functionality
     o    decrease time to market for their products, and
     o    significantly reduce product cost

                                       2
<PAGE>
     In addition, embedded control systems facilitate the emergence of complete
new classes of products. Embedded control systems have been incorporated into
thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of markets worldwide,
including:

     o    automotive comfort, safety and     o    cordless and cellular
          entertainment applications              telephone accessories
     o    remote control devices             o    motor controls
     o    handheld tools                     o    security systems
     o    home appliances                    o    educational and entertainment
     o    portable computers                      devices, and
                                             o    personal digital assistant
                                                  (PDA) accessories.

     Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the
principal active, and sometimes sole, component. A microcontroller is a
self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a central processing unit,
non-volatile program memory, random access memory for data storage and various
input/output peripheral capabilities. In addition to the microcontroller, a
complete embedded control system incorporates application-specific software and
may include specialized peripheral device controllers and internal or external
non-volatile memory components, such as EEPROMs, to store additional program
software.

     The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for
microcontrollers one of the largest segments of the semiconductor market.
Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit architectures.
Although 4-bit microcontrollers are relatively inexpensive, they generally lack
the minimum performance and features required for product differentiation and
are typically used only to produce basic functionality in products. While
traditional 16 and 32-bit architectures provide very high performance, they are
generally more expensive for most high-volume embedded control applications,
typically costing two to four times the cost of an 8-bit microcontroller. As a
result, manufacturers of competitive, high-volume products have increasingly
found 8-bit microcontrollers to be the most cost-effective embedded control
solution.

     Most microcontrollers available today are ROM-based and must be programmed
by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing, resulting in 10 to 12-week
lead times, based on current market conditions, for delivery of such
microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product introduction, these long lead
times can result in potential inventory obsolescence and temporary factory
shutdowns when changes in the firmware are required. To address these issues,
some suppliers offer programmable microcontrollers that can be configured by the
customer in the customer's manufacturing line, thus minimizing lead-time and
inventory risks when the inevitable firmware changes occur. While these
microcontrollers were initially expensive relative to ROM-based
microcontrollers, manufacturing technology has evolved over the last several
years to the point where reprogrammable microcontrollers are now available for
little to no premium over ROM-based microcontrollers, thus providing significant
value to microcontroller customers. As a result, reprogrammable microcontrollers
are the fastest growing segment of the 8-bit microcontroller market.

OUR PRODUCTS

     Our strategic focus is on embedded control products, including:

     o    microcontrollers
     o    high-performance linear and mixed-signal devices
     o    power management and thermal management devices
     o    smart battery management devices, and
     o    complementary microperipheral products including interface devices,
          Serial EEPROMs, low power radio frequency, or RF, devices, and our
          patented KEELOQ(R)security devices.

     We provide highly cost-effective embedded control products that also offer
the advantages of small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and
ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product
integration by our customers.

                                       3
<PAGE>
     MICROCONTROLLERS

     We offer a broad family of microcontroller products featuring a unique,
proprietary architecture marketed under the PIC(R) brand name. We believe that
our PIC(R) product family is a price/performance leader in the worldwide
microcontroller market. We have shipped approximately 2.5 billion PIC(R)
microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their introduction in 1990. Our
PIC(R) products are designed for applications requiring field-programmability,
high performance, low power and cost effectiveness. They feature a variety of
memory technology configurations, low voltage and power, small footprint and
ease of use. Our performance results from an exclusive product architecture
which features dual data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard
dual-bus architecture; a reduced instruction set, referred to as RISC; and
variable length instructions; all of which provide significant speed advantages
over alternative single-bus, CISC architectures. With over 180 microcontrollers
in our product portfolio, we target the entire performance range of 8-bit
microcontrollers. Additionally, our scalable product architecture allows us to
successfully target both the entry-level of the 16-bit microcontroller market,
as well as the higher end of the 4-bit microcontroller marketplace,
significantly enlarging our addressable market.

     We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology
to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the
development and production of our PIC(R) family of microcontroller products. Our
extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our advanced, low cost user
programmability feature by incorporating non-volatile memory, such as Flash,
EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller, and to be a leader in
reprogrammable microcontroller product offerings.

     DIGITAL SIGNAL CONTROLLERS

     We recently began sampling our Digital Signal Controller product line. Our
family of dsPIC(TM) microcontrollers is a series of high performance 16-bit
microcontrollers, combining the many features and capabilities of our PIC(R)
family of 8-bit microcontrollers with the high performance capabilities of a
digital signal processor (DSP).

     Our dsPIC(TM) product family will offer a broad development tool suite of
hardware and software to ease the effort of the designer, high performance
Harvard dual-bus architecture and a proliferation of integrated peripherals to
monitor and control all aspects of the embedded control product. With its
field-re-programmability, program memory, low power, small footprint and ease of
use, we believe that our dsPIC(TM) microcontrollers will significantly enlarge
our addressable market.

     DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS

     We offer a comprehensive set of low cost and easy-to-learn application
development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily
program a PIC(R) microcontroller for specific applications and are a key factor
for obtaining design wins.

     Our family of development tools operates in the standard Windows(R)
environment on standard PC hardware. Entry-level systems, which include an
assembler and programmer or in-circuit debugging hardware are priced at less
than $200. Fully configured systems that provide in-circuit emulation hardware
are priced between $2,000 and $3,500. Customers moving from entry-level designs
to those requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve their investment in
learning and tools as they migrate to future PIC(R) devices since all systems
share the same integrated development environment.

     Many independent companies also develop and market application development
tools and systems that support our standard microcontroller product
architecture. Currently, there are more than 150 third-party tool suppliers
worldwide whose products support our proprietary microcontroller architecture.

     We believe that familiarity with and adoption of our, and third-party,
development systems by an increasing number of product designers will be an
important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products. These
development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of
application-specific products from our standard microcontrollers. To date, we
have shipped more than 260,000 development systems.

                                       4
<PAGE>
     ASSPs

     Our application-specific standard products, referred to as ASSPs, are
specialized products designed to perform specific end-user applications,
compared to our other products that are more general purpose in nature. Our ASSP
device families currently include, among others, the KEELOQ(R) family of secure
data transmission products and smart battery management products.

     MIXED-SIGNAL ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCTS

     Our mixed-signal analog and interface products now consist of several
families with over 300 power management, linear, mixed-signal, thermal
management and interface products. At the end of fiscal 2003, our mixed-signal
analog and interface products were being shipped to more than 7,000 end
customers.

     We continue marketing and selling our analog and interface products into
our existing microcontroller customer base, which we refer to as our analog
"attach" strategy, as well as to new customers. In addition to our "attach"
strategy, we market and sell other products that may not fit our traditional
PIC(R) microcontroller and memory products customer base. We market these, and
all of our products, based on a "functions" approach, targeted to solve
different problems in development of our customers' products.

     MEMORY PRODUCTS

     Our memory products consist primarily of serial electrically erasable
programmable read only memory, referred to as EEPROMs. We sell these devices
primarily into the embedded control market, and we are one of the largest
suppliers of such devices worldwide. EEPROM products are used for non-volatile
program and data storage in systems where such data must be either modified
frequently or retained for long periods. Serial EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin
requirement, permitting production of very small devices. As a result, Serial
EEPROMs are widely used to supply non-volatile memory in space-sensitive
applications such as:

     o    home electronics
     o    portable computers
     o    cellular and cordless telephones
     o    pagers, and
     o    remote control devices.

     We address customer requirements by offering products with extremely small
package sizes and very low operating voltages for both read and write functions.
High performance circuitry and microcode are also available to reduce power
consumption when a device is not in use, while permitting immediate operating
capability when required. Our memory products also feature long data retention
and high erase/write endurance.

MANUFACTURING

     Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and
test. The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of
our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing
control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded
control industry. By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and the majority of
our assembly and test operations, and by employing proprietary statistical
process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high
production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to
shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture
the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and testing profit margin.

     Our manufacturing facilities are located in:

     o    Chandler, Arizona (Fab 1)
     o    Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2)
     o    Puyallup, Washington (Fab 3) (non-operational-held for sale)
     o    Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4), and
     o    Bangkok, Thailand (assembly and test).

                                       5
<PAGE>
     WAFER FABRICATION

     As we announced on April 7, 2003, we are closing Fab 1 and integrating
certain personnel and processes from Fab 1 into Fab 2. Fab 1, which currently
produces 6-inch wafers using manufacturing processes between 0.5 and 5.0
microns, is our oldest manufacturing facility. Fab 2 currently produces 8-inch
wafers and supports manufacturing processes between 0.35 and 5.0 microns.

     We expect that the integration of Fab 1 processes and products into Fab 2
will be completed by June 30, 2003, at which time Fab 1 will cease to operate as
a wafer fabrication facility. We also expect that we will incur accelerated
depreciation charges and other expenses related to the shut down of Fab 1 in the
first quarter of fiscal 2004. See "ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - RECENT DEVELOPMENT," below at
page 24, for a discussion of these anticipated charges.

     We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2 and Fab 4 will provide sufficient
capacity to allow us to respond to increases in future demand.

     During fiscal 2003, Fabs 1 and 2 operated at approximately 85% of their
aggregate capacity, compared to approximately 70% of their aggregate capacity
during fiscal 2002. Operating at lower percentages of capacity has a negative
impact on operating results due to the relatively high fixed costs inherent in
our wafer fabrication manufacturing. As of March 31, 2003, products manufactured
on 8-inch wafers accounted for approximately 80% of our production.

     Fab 3 is non-operational and is currently classified as an asset
held-for-sale. See "ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - SPECIAL CHARGES - FAB 3 IMPAIRMENT
CHARGE," below at page 33, for a discussion of the status of Fab 3.

     Fab 4 was acquired in August 2002. Product and customer qualifications are
in process and production start-up is currently planned for the third quarter of
fiscal 2004. Fab 4 will produce 8-inch wafers using 0.5 micron manufacturing
processes; however, Fab 4 is capable of supporting technologies below 0.18
microns.

     We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to
reduce future manufacturing costs. We believe that our successful transition to
more advanced process technologies and larger wafers is important for us to
remain competitive. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if
any such transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

     We also contract with third-party wafer foundries to fabricate
approximately 3% of our products, primarily in our analog and smart battery
management product families. We plan to transition certain of these products to
our own wafer fabrication facilities over time. On a strategic basis, we will
continue to use third-party foundries to shorten our product design cycle on
certain key technologies and products.

     ASSEMBLY AND TEST

     We perform product assembly and testing at our facilities located near
Bangkok, Thailand. At March 31, 2003, approximately 77% of our assembly
requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility. As of March 31,
2003, our Thailand facility was testing substantially all of our wafer
production. During fiscal 2003, we substantially completed an approximately
67,000 square foot expansion of test capacity at our Thailand facility that,
once placed in service, will increase the facility's test capacity by between
50% and 70%. The expansion was not finalized, as the capacity is not currently
required due to conditions within the semiconductor industry. We plan to
complete the expansion when business conditions indicate that the capacity is
required. We also use third-party assembly and test contractors in several Asian
countries for the balance of our assembly and test requirements.

     GENERAL MATTERS IMPACTING OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS

     We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our
microcontroller and memory products. We believe our processes afford us both
cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater
functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and
optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a
common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory
products. This allows us to more fully absorb our process research and
development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our

                                       6
<PAGE>
engineers utilize advanced CAD tools and software to perform circuit design,
simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication
facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test
wafers quickly and efficiently.

     Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing,
consistently high manufacturing yields can have significant positive effects on
gross profit and overall operating results. During fiscal 2003, our focus on
manufacturing productivity allowed us to maintain average wafer fab line yields
in excess of 95%. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a
comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee
training and selective upgrading of our manufacturing facilities and equipment.
Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in
the achievement of our operating results. The manufacture and assembly of
integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic
devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes
are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants
in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the
performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in
the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than
anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are
unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels.

     Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and
equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one
source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers
capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our
standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our
business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of
semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply
shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told
us they need more time than expected to fill our orders. An interruption of any
raw materials or equipment sources could harm our business.

     Our reliance on third parties for a portion of wafer fabrication and
assembly and testing involves some reduction in our level of control over the
portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality,
delivery and cost performance of these third-party contractors, our future
operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to
maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at
approximately their current levels.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE TIMING OF THE COMPLETION OF THE
TRANSFER OF PROCESSES AND PRODUCTS FROM FAB 1 TO FAB 2, THE TIMING, COMPOSITION
AND AMOUNT OF ANY CHARGES RELATED TO THE SHUT-DOWN OF FAB 1, THE TIMING OF
PRODUCTION START-UP OF FAB 4, THE SHUT-DOWN OF FAB 1 AND THE INTEGRATION OF
CERTAIN PERSONNEL AND PROCESSES FROM FAB 1 INTO FAB 2 AND THE START-UP OF FAB 4
ALLOWING US TO REDUCE FUTURE MANUFACTURING COSTS, THE COMBINED CAPACITY OF FAB 2
AND FAB 4 PROVIDING SUFFICIENT CAPACITY TO ALLOW US TO RESPOND TO FUTURE
INCREASES IN DEMAND AND THE TRANSITION TO MORE ADVANCED PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES TO
REDUCE FUTURE MANUFACTURING COSTS ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS
COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: OUR
ABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY CARRY OUT OUR PLANNED RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES AND
REALIZE THE SAVINGS AND OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES EXPECTED FROM THESE ACTIONS;
THE RATE OF RECOVERY IN THE OVERALL ECONOMY AND THE UNCERTAINTY OF CURRENT
ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS; THE POTENTIAL FOR UNANTICIPATED RESULTS FROM
OUR RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES ON OUR PERFORMANCE INCLUDING CUSTOMER CONCERNS,
PRODUCTIVITY AND THE RETENTION OF KEY EMPLOYEES; CHANGES IN UTILIZATION OF OUR
CURRENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; UNANTICIPATED COSTS IN BRINGING FAB 4 ON-LINE;
TIMELY FACILITIZATION OF FAB 4, INCLUDING THE AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT AND
OTHER SUPPLIES; OUR ABILITY TO RAMP PRODUCTS INTO VOLUME PRODUCTION AT FAB 4;
THE ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL IN THE PORTLAND, OREGON
AREA; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; CHANGES
IN DEMAND FOR OUR ANALOG AND BATTERY MANAGEMENT PRODUCTS; SUPPLY DISRUPTION;
ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER DIRECT MANUFACTURING COSTS;
FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS; PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY
UTILIZATION; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICES; LABOR
UNREST; POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND EXPROPRIATION; AND OTHER GENERAL ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D)

     We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products,
including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process
technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in
maintaining our competitive position. Our current R&D activities focus on the
design of new 8-bit microcontrollers, 16-bit digital signal controllers, memory
and mixed-signal products, ASSPs, new development systems, and software and
application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and
process technology to achieve further cost reductions and performance
improvements in existing products.

                                       7
<PAGE>
     In fiscal 2003, our R&D expenses were $88.0 million, compared to $81.7
million in fiscal 2002 and $78.6 million in fiscal 2001.

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

     GENERAL

     We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct
sales personnel and distributors.

     Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in
three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain
sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe
and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to
the continued development of the embedded control market. The majority of our
field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales
management have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an
engineering environment. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales
force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary
mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts
and to conduct periodic training sessions for FSEs and distributor sales teams.
FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars in major cities around the
world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance
and end-user support.

     DISTRIBUTION

     Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical
support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that
distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse
customer base.

     In fiscal 2003, we derived 60% of our net sales from sales through
distributors and 40% of our net sales from direct sales to original equipment
manufacturers, referred to as OEM, customers. Distributors accounted for 62% of
our net sales in fiscal 2002 and 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2001. One
distributor accounted for 12% of our total net sales for fiscal 2003, 13% of our
total net sales for fiscal 2002 and 14% for fiscal 2001. No other distributor or
end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal years 2003,
2002 or 2001.

     Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and
our distributors may terminate their relationship with us with little or no
advanced notice. The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more
of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and
could result in us receiving product returns from the distributors.

     As is common in the semiconductor industry, we provide price protection to
our distributors. Under our current policy, distributors receive a credit for
the difference, at the time of a price reduction, between the price they were
originally charged for products in inventory and the reduced price that we
subsequently charge distributors. On a case-by-case basis, distributors may also
receive credit for specific transactions that we approve in advance. We also
grant distributors limited rights to return products.

     REVENUE RECOGNITION

     We recognize revenue from product sales upon shipment to OEMs. For sales
recorded upon shipment, we record reserves to cover the estimated customer
returns. Our distributors have broad rights to return products and price
protection rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the distributor sells
the product to their customers. Upon shipment, amounts billed to distributors
are included as accounts receivable, inventory is relieved, the sale is deferred
and the gross margin is reflected as a current liability until the product is
sold by the distributor to their customers. We changed our revenue recognition
policy as it relates to sales to Asia regional distributors during fiscal 2003.
See "Item 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE," beginning at page 24
below.

                                       8
<PAGE>
     SALES BY GEOGRAPHY

     Sales by geography for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
were as follows (in thousands):

                                        Year Ended March 31,
                     ----------------------------------------------------------
                       2003        %       2002       %         2001       %
                     --------   ------   --------   ------    --------   ------
Americas             $219,504     33.7   $192,924     33.8    $236,295     33.0
Europe                177,727     27.3    179,355     31.4     219,302     30.6
Asia                  254,231     39.0    198,975     34.8     260,133     36.4
                     --------   ------   --------   ------    --------   ------

Total Sales          $651,462    100.0%  $571,254    100.0%   $715,730    100.0%
                     ========   ======   ========   ======    ========   ======

     Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe,
which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive,
communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas
sales include sales to customers in the United States, Canada, Central America
and South America.

     Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 71% of our net sales
in fiscal 2003, approximately 69% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and
approximately 68% of our net sales in fiscal 2001.

     Sales to customers in China accounted for approximately 13% of our net
sales in fiscal 2003. We did not have sales into any other foreign countries
that exceeded 10% of our net sales during the periods covered by this report.

     Our international sales are predominately billed in U.S. Dollars. Although
foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we have not
experienced any material difficulties as a result of export restrictions to
date.

     Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks as described under
the heading, "WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON FOREIGN SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH
EXPOSES US TO FOREIGN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS," on page 16.

BACKLOG

     As of April 25, 2003, our backlog was approximately $106.6 million,
compared to $119.9 million as of April 26, 2002. Our backlog includes all
purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months.

     We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory
within a short time after we receive an order. Our business and, to a large
extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by
short-term orders and shipment schedules. Orders constituting our current
backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the
customer's option without significant penalty. Thus, while backlog is useful for
scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable
measure of sales for any future period.

COMPETITION

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been
characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with
major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have
greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing,
distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies
may also increase their participation in the market for embedded control
applications. Furthermore, capacity in the semiconductor industry is generally
increasing over time and such increased capacity or improved product
availability could adversely affect our competitive position.

                                       9
<PAGE>
     We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation
and performance of our embedded control products, including such products':

     o    speed                              o    reliability
     o    functionality                      o    packaging alternatives
     o    density                            o    price, and
     o    power consumption                  o    availability

We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control
market include:

     o    ease of use
     o    functionality of application development systems
     o    dependable delivery and quality, and
     o    technical service and support.

     We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these
factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could
harm our business.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

     We maintain a portfolio of United States and foreign patents, expiring on
various dates between 2003 and 2021. We also have numerous additional United
States and foreign patent applications pending. While we intend to continue to
seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes, we believe that our
continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative
abilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize product
developments, rather than on our patents. Our existing patents and any new
patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide
meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. In addition, the laws
of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to
the same extent as the laws of the United States.

     We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and
cross-licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and
manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our
customers have from time to time received, and may in the future receive,
communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual
property rights on certain of our products or technologies. We investigate all
such notices and respond as we believe is appropriate. Based on industry
practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain any necessary licenses or
other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we cannot assure that
licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation would not ensue or that
damages for any past infringement would not be assessed. Litigation, which could
result in substantial cost to us and divert management effort, may be necessary
to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, or to defend us
against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain
necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of infringement
claims, could harm our business. See "ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS," beginning
below at page 19.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

     We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental
regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain
chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes. Our facilities have
been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our
activities are conducted in compliance with such regulations. Any changes in
such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire costly
equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental
regulations. Any failure by us to control adequately the storage, use and
disposal of regulated substances could result in future liabilities.

     Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of
electronic manufacturing operations. While we have not experienced any
materially adverse effects on our operations from environmental regulations, our
business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to
control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous
substances under present or future environmental regulations.

                                       10
<PAGE>
EMPLOYEES

     As of April 25, 2003, we had 3,373 employees. Approximately 39% of our
employees work at our Thailand facility. None of our employees in the U.S. or
Thailand are represented by a labor organization. We have never had a work
stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good.

     On April 7, 2003, we announced that the closure of Fab 1 and the
integration of certain personnel and processes from Fab 1 into Fab 2 would
result in a reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. See "ITEM 1 -
BUSINESS - MANUFACTURING," above at page 5 for a discussion of the closure of
Fab 1 and the integration of certain personnel and processes into Fab 2.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive
officers as of April 25, 2003:

     NAME                     AGE                    POSITION
     ----                     ---                    --------
     Steve Sanghi              47       Chairman of the Board, President
                                          and Chief Executive Officer
     David S. Lambert          51       Vice President, Fab Operations
     Mitchell R. Little        50       Vice President, Worldwide Sales
                                          and Applications
     Ganesh Moorthy            43       Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller
                                          and Automotive Division
     Gordon W. Parnell         53       Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
     Richard J. Simoncic       39       Vice President, Analog and Interface
                                          Products Division

     MR. SANGHI has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991,
and Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He has served as a director since
August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer
Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in
Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India.

     MR. LAMBERT has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November
1993. From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing
Engineering, and from 1988 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab
Operations. Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the
University of Cincinnati.

     MR. LITTLE has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications
since July 2000. From April 1998 through July 2000, he served as Vice President,
Americas Sales. From November 1995 to April 1998, he served as Vice President,
Standard Microcontroller and ASSP Division. Mr. Little holds a BSET from United
Electronics Institute.

     MR. MOORTHY has served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and
Automotive Division since November 2001. From August 2000 through November 2001,
he served as Chairman and CEO of Cybercilium, Inc., a business intelligence
solutions provider for mid-market companies. From 1981 through July 2000, Mr.
Moorthy worked at Intel Corporation in various operations and management
capacities, including his last assignment as Director of Operations for Intel's
Home Products Group. Mr. Moorthy holds an MBA in Marketing from National
University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Bombay.

     MR. PARNELL has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
May 2000. He served as Vice President, Controller and Treasurer from April 1993
to May 2000. Mr. Parnell holds a finance/accounting qualification with the
Association of Certified Accountants from Edinburgh College, Scotland.

     MR. SIMONCIC has served as Vice President, Analog and Interface Products
Division since September 1999. From January 1996 to September 1999, he served as
Vice President, Memory and Specialty Products Division. Mr. Simoncic holds a
B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of
Technology.

ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful
consideration to the factors described below, in addition to the information
provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with
the SEC.

                                       11
<PAGE>
OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE DUE TO FACTORS THAT COULD REDUCE
OUR NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY.

     Our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors
that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our
control. Some of the factors that may affect our quarterly operating results
include:

     o    changes in demand for our products in the distribution and OEM
          channels
     o    the level and timing at which previous design wins become actual
          orders and sales
     o    the level of sell-through of our products through distribution
     o    the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter
          (turns orders)
     o    market acceptance of both our products and our customers' products
     o    customer order patterns and seasonality
     o    levels of inventories at our distributors and other customers
     o    inventory mix and timing of customer orders
     o    downward pricing pressures in our product lines
     o    possible disruption in commercial activities or international
          transport or delivery caused by war, armed conflict or terrorist
          activity, or unexpected increases in the price of, or decrease in the
          supply of, oil, any of which could result in changes in logistics and
          security arrangements, and reduced customer purchases relative to
          expectations
     o    impact of events outside of the United States, such as the business
          impact of fluctuating currency rates or unrest or political
          instability
     o    the impact on our business and on customer order patterns due to major
          public health concerns, such as the outbreak of the SARS virus
     o    disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly and testing services
     o    availability of manufacturing capacity, the extent of effective use of
          manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields
     o    the availability and cost of raw materials, equipment and other
          supplies
     o    the costs and outcome of any litigation involving intellectual
          property, customer and other issues
     o    uninsured losses, and
     o    economic, political and other conditions in the worldwide markets
          served by us.

     We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are
not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such
comparisons as indications of future performance. In future periods our
operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and
investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common
stock.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER IF WE INEFFECTIVELY UTILIZE OUR MANUFACTURING
CAPACITY OR FAIL TO MAINTAIN MANUFACTURING YIELDS.

     The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly
non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we
produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety
of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing
environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our wafer
fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor
industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated
manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to
maintain yields at approximately the current levels.

     Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less
than optimal capacity. Lower capacity utilization results in certain costs being
charged directly to expense and lower gross margins.

IF WE DO NOT BRING OUR FAB 4 (GRESHAM, OREGON) WAFER FABRICATION FACILITY ON
LINE IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR ANTICIPATED REVENUES MAY BE REDUCED AND OUR GROSS
MARGINS WILL BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED.

                                       12
<PAGE>
     We acquired Fab 4, located in Gresham, Oregon, in August 2002. We currently
anticipate that Fab 4 will commence production in the third quarter of fiscal
2004. Bringing Fab 4 on-line involves significant risks, including:

     o    successful implementation of our 0.5 micron manufacturing process at
          Fab 4
     o    effective integration of a variety of hardware and software components
     o    potential shortages of materials and skilled labor
     o    unforeseen environmental or engineering problems
     o    approvals and requirements of governmental and regulatory agencies,
          and
     o    unanticipated costs.

     Any one of these risks could delay the equipping and production start-up of
Fab 4, and could involve significant additional costs or reduce our anticipated
revenues.

     As a result of these and other factors, Fab 4 may not commence production
when anticipated or within budget. Also, we may be unable to achieve adequate
manufacturing yields in Fab 4 in a timely manner and our revenues may not
increase in proportion to the anticipated increase in manufacturing capacity
associated with Fab 4 which would harm our operating results.

WE DEPEND ON ORDERS THAT ARE RECEIVED AND SHIPPED IN THE SAME QUARTER AND
THEREFORE HAVE LIMITED VISIBILITY OF FUTURE PRODUCT SHIPMENTS.

     Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments
from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter,
which we refer to as turns orders. We emphasize our ability to respond quickly
to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers
placing orders with short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean
that turns orders as a percentage of our business is relatively high in any
particular quarter and reduces our visibility on future product shipments. The
percentage of turns orders in any given quarter fluctuates and depends on
overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.

     As such, our percentage of turns orders required in any particular quarter
has fluctuated over the last three fiscal years between approximately 20% and
62%. Because turns orders are difficult to predict, increased levels of turns
orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. If we do not achieve a
sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue
targets, our revenue and operating results will suffer.

INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS WE SERVE MAY LEAD TO PRICING PRESSURES,
REDUCED SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS AND REDUCED MARKET SHARE.

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been
characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with
major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have
greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical,
marketing, distribution and other resources than we with which to pursue
engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.
Emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the market for
embedded control applications. We may be unable to compete successfully in the
future, which could harm our business.

     Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both
within and outside our control, including:

     o    the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing
          and diversity of our products
     o    the quality of our customer service and our ability to address the
          needs of our customers
     o    our success in designing and manufacturing new products including
          those implementing new technologies
     o    the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own
          products
     o    our level of manufacturing capacity utilization and manufacturing
          yields
     o    our ability to hire and retain qualified engineering and management
          personnel
     o    product introductions by our competitors
     o    the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market
     o    our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other
          supplies at acceptable prices
     o    our ability to protect our products and processes by effective
          utilization of intellectual property laws, and general market and
          economic conditions.

                                       13
<PAGE>
     Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease
over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of
our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained
relatively constant, while average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM and
non-proprietary analog and interface products have declined, over time. We have
experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressure in certain
of our proprietary product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions. We
have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our
proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more
features and higher prices. We have experienced in the past and expect to
continue to experience in the future varying degrees of competitive pricing
pressures in our Serial EEPROM products.

     We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a
result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would reduce our
operating results.

WE MUST ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL TO BE SUCCESSFUL, AND COMPETITION
FOR QUALIFIED PERSONNEL IS INTENSE IN OUR MARKET.

     Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities
of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. The competition for
qualified engineering and management personnel is intense. We may be
unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and
retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of
one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could
harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our
senior management team.

OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS ON A TIMELY BASIS.

     Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our
ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete
effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer
requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various
factors, including:

     o    proper new product selection
     o    timely completion and introduction of new product designs
     o    development of support tools and collateral literature that make
          complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use, and
     o    market acceptance of our customers' end products.

     Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to
time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products
may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to
design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which
could reduce our future operating results.

     Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new
design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies
are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D
expenditures. We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time,
experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process
technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or
delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely
affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially
delayed or inefficiently implemented.

GENERAL CONDITIONS IN THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY MAY AFFECT OUR COSTS AND INCREASE
THE RISKS TO OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS.

     As conditions in the insurance industry have resulted in decreased
availability of coverage and substantially increased insurance rates over the
last two fiscal years, our liability, property and casualty insurance coverage
levels have decreased and our retained risk exposure from uninsured losses has
increased. We have not made any material change to our operations as a result of
the reduced coverage. Availability and cost of insurance coverage have generally
fluctuated over time as the insurance industry reacts to various market forces
and we will continue to consider changes in our coverage levels based on
conditions in the insurance market.

                                       14
<PAGE>
WE ARE DEPENDENT ON SEVERAL THIRD-PARTY CONTRACTORS TO PERFORM KEY MANUFACTURING
FUNCTIONS FOR US.

     We use several third-party contractors located throughout Asia for a
portion of the assembly and testing of our products. We also rely on outside
wafer foundries for a portion of the wafer fabrication of our analog and smart
battery management products. Through the first half of fiscal 2004, we expect to
continue to rely on one outside foundry to supply a substantial portion of the
wafers that are required to support our smart battery management business, which
represented approximately 2% of our net sales during the quarter ended March 31,
2003. Such foundry is a direct competitor of ours. Although we have reduced our
dependence on third-party contractors over time, the disruption or termination
of any of these sources could harm our business and operating results. Our use
of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the
portions of our business that we subcontract. Our future operating results could
suffer if any third-party contractor were to experience financial, operations,
production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they
were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs
at approximately their current levels. In such case, we may not be able to
qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products on a timely manner or
at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us.

WE MAY LOSE SALES IF OUR SUPPLIERS OF RAW MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT FAIL TO MEET
OUR NEEDS.

     Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and
equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one
source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers
capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our
standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our
business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of
semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply
shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told
us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no
longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacements parts.
An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of
supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business.

OUR BUSINESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON SELLING THROUGH DISTRIBUTORS.

     Sales through distributors accounted for 60% of our net sales for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. Sales through one distributor accounted for
12% of our total net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. Generally,
we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and our distributors
may terminate their relationship with us with little or no advanced notice.

     The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more of our
distributors could reduce our net sales in a given quarter and could result in
an increase in inventory returns.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE IMPACTED BY THE WIDE FLUCTUATIONS OF SUPPLY AND
DEMAND IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY.

     The semiconductor industry is characterized by wide fluctuations of supply
and demand. Throughout the last three fiscal years, the industry experienced a
significant economic downturn, characterized by diminished product demand and
production over-capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry
cyclicality by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly
replaced, to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of
market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period
fluctuations in operating results and may, in the future, experience
period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or
economic conditions.

WE ARE EXPOSED TO VARIOUS RISKS RELATED TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS OR CLAIMS.

     We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings
or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts
and other matters. In addition, as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we
receive notification from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification
or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers
by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without
merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. If we
are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of a matter, obtain
necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully
prosecute or defend our position, our business, financial condition or results
of operations could be harmed.

                                       15
<PAGE>
FAILURE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY COULD RESULT IN LOST
REVENUE OR MARKET OPPORTUNITIES.

     Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property
rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our
success. To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and
intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing
processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive,
and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In
addition, our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of
sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial
advantage to us. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings
in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which can require significant financial
and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do
not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of
the United States. Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third
party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for
us.

WE DO NOT HAVE LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS.

     We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and
we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do
enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the
convenience of the customer. In the event of any early termination of a contract
by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we would be able to rapidly
replace that revenue source which would harm our financial results.

BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

     Operations at any of our primary manufacturing facilities, or at any of our
wafer fabrication or test and assembly subcontractors, may be disrupted for
reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, power loss, incidents of
terrorism, political instability, public health issues such as SARS,
telecommunications failure, fire, earthquake, floods, or other natural
disasters. If operations at any of our, or our subcontractors', facilities are
interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a
timely basis. If this occurs, we may experience delays in shipments of products
to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on
acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the
cancellation of orders or loss of customers. In addition, business interruption
insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may
occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business
interruptions could significantly harm our business.

WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON FOREIGN SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO
FOREIGN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS.

     Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net
sales. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003, approximately 71% of our net
sales were made to foreign customers. We purchase a substantial portion of our
raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product
assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. We also use
various foreign third-party contractors for a portion of our assembly and
testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements for our analog
and smart battery management products. Substantially all of our finished goods
inventory is maintained in Thailand.

     Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of
substantially all of our finished goods in inventory at foreign locations and
significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks,
including:

     o    political, social and economic instability
     o    trade restrictions and changes in tariffs
     o    import and export license requirements and restrictions
     o    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations
     o    employment regulations
     o    disruptions in international transport or delivery
     o    fluctuations in currency exchange rates
     o    difficulties in collecting receivables
     o    economic slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us, and
     o    potentially adverse tax consequences.

     If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our
operating results could suffer.

                                       16
<PAGE>
CURRENT GEOPOLITICAL TURMOIL, PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERNS AND THE CONTINUING THREAT
OF DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ATTACKS MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR
BUSINESS.

     International turmoil, such as the recent war in Iraq, the tensions in
North Korea and the SARS outbreak, have contributed to an uncertain political
and economic climate in the United States and in many of the countries in which
we conduct business. These conditions make it difficult for us, and our
customers, to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could
harm our business.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH MAY FORCE US TO
INCUR SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES.

     We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental
regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic,
volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process.
Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable
environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future
regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or
a cessation of operations. Any such regulation could require us to acquire
costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with
environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately
restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future
liabilities. Environmental problems may occur that could subject us to future
costs or liabilities.

OUR FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS OR TECHNOLOGIES WE
ACQUIRE COULD DISRUPT OR HARM OUR ONGOING BUSINESS.

     We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire,
additional complementary businesses, products and technologies. Achieving the
anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends upon whether the integration of
the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished efficiently and
effectively. In addition, successful acquisitions in the semiconductor industry
may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries because such
acquisitions require, among other things, integration of product offerings,
manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and R&D
efforts. These difficulties can become more challenging due to the need to
coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexities of the
technologies being integrated, and the necessities of integrating personnel with
disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures.
The integration of operations following an acquisition also requires the
dedication of management resources, which may distract attention from our
day-to-day business and may disrupt key R&D, marketing or sales efforts. The
inability of our management to successfully integrate any future acquisition
could harm our business. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with
acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the
anticipated or desired benefits of such transaction.

RECENTLY ENACTED AND PROPOSED CHANGES IN SECURITIES LAWS AND RELATED REGULATIONS
COULD RESULT IN INCREASED COSTS TO US.

     Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting
public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
rules proposed by the SEC, Nasdaq and the NYSE, could result in increased costs
to us as we respond to their requirements. The new rules could make it more
difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and
officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy
limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or
similar coverage. In this regard, during our most recent annual renewal of our
director and officer liability insurance policy, we experienced substantially
reduced policy limits and terms at a significant cost increase compared to our
prior coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for
us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors,
on committees of our Board of Directors, or as executive officers. We cannot
predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the
timing of such costs that we may incur as we implement these new and proposed
rules.

THE FUTURE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD BE SUBJECT TO WIDE
FLUCTUATIONS IN RESPONSE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS.

     The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the
past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our
common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of
factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:

                                       17
<PAGE>
     o    quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating
          results of other technology companies
     o    actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new
          products by us or our competitors
     o    changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or
          buy/sell recommendations
     o    general conditions in the semiconductor industry, and
     o    worldwide economic and financial conditions.

     In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume
fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high
technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating
performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors
may harm the market price of our common stock.
