Item 1. Business

 

Company Overview

 

We design, develop, license and market memory technologies used by the semiconductor industry and electronic product manufacturers. We have developed a series of patented semiconductor memory technologies, called 1T- SRAM technologies, that offer a combination of high density, low power consumption and high speed at performance and cost levels that other available memory technologies do not match. We license this technology to companies that incorporate, or embed, memory on complex integrated circuits.  We generate revenue from intellectual property licensing, which consists of licensing and royalty revenues. We also sell memory chips based on our 1T-SRAM technologies.

 

Using elements of our existing memory technology as a foundation, we completed development of our first memory chips incorporating our 1T-SRAM technologies in the fourth quarter of 1998. Through the second quarter of 2001, almost all of our revenue was generated by product sales of our memory chips. Since then, however, licensing and royalty revenues have represented the majority of our revenues, a trend that we expect will continue for the foreseeable future. Our licensing revenue consists of fees paid for engineering development and engineering support services. We are entitled to receive royalties under each of our licensing agreements when our licensees manufacture or sell products that incorporate our technology.

 

We signed our first license agreement related to our 1T-SRAM technology at the end of the fourth quarter of 1998 and in the first quarter of 2000 recognized revenue from licensing our 1T-SRAM technology for the first time. In 2001, we introduced enhancements to the original technology with 1T-SRAM-M, a lower power version and 1T-SRAM-R, a version offering improved quality and reliability features. In 2002, we introduced 1T-SRAM-Q, which offers twice the density of our original technology.

 

As of December 31, 2003, we had signed license agreements related to our 1T-SRAM technologies with 41 companies. Our licensing sales cycle is lengthy. Generally, we expect the period from our initial discussion with a prospective licensee to a signed agreement to last from three to six months. Once our customer signs a license agreement, we generally will recognize revenue from fees for developing and delivering 1T-SRAM designs to the customer over a period of 6 to 18 months. If the customer subsequently uses our 1T-SRAM design in production, we would not expect to receive any royalty payments until 18 to 24 months after the commencement of the project.

 

To expand the range of memory technology intellectual property and services available to our customers, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of ATMOS Corporation, a Canada based privately held company focused on creating high-density, compiler-generated embedded memory solutions, effective August 30, 2002. In December 2002, we announced our first 1T-SRAM compiler for 0.15-micron standard logic processes available for the leading foundries. The 1T-SRAM compiler, which is a software program that allows semiconductor designers to configure memories to meet their design specifications, resulted directly from the ATMOS acquisition.  This compiler broadens the potential distribution of our 1T-SRAM technologies by making them available for semiconductor design applications for which our custom memory designs may not be cost effective.

 

To complement our existing high-density, low-power 1T-SRAM technologies, we announced the availability of our low 

 

1


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

power 6T-SRAM-R compilers in January 2004.  The 6T-SRAM-R compilers incorporate the same technologies that deliver the quality and low-power advantages offered by our 1T-SRAM technologies for large memories and extend these benefits to small memories of less than one megabit in size, for system-on-chip, or SoC designers.  Our new compilers have significant low power advantages as compared to other six-transistor embedded memories.

 

Industry Background

 

Trends in the Semiconductor Industry

 

Electronic products play an increasingly important role in our lives, as evidenced by the growth of the personal computer, wireless communications, networking equipment and consumer electronics markets. These markets are characterized by intensifying competition, rapid innovation, increasing performance requirements and continuing cost pressures. To manufacture electronic products that achieve optimal performance and cost levels, semiconductor companies must produce integrated circuits that offer higher performance, greater functionality and lower cost.

 

Two important measures of performance are speed and power consumption. Higher-speed integrated circuits can allow electronic products to operate faster, enabling the performance of more functions. Reducing the power consumption of integrated circuits contributes to increased battery life and reduced heat generation in electronic products. Reduced power consumption also enables integrated circuit designers to overcome costly design hurdles, such as meeting the thermal limitations of low-cost packaging materials.

 

In addition to offering high-performance products, semiconductor companies must produce integrated circuits that are cost effective. High-density integrated circuits require less silicon, thus reducing their size and cost.  Cost reductions also can be achieved by simplifying the integrated circuit’s manufacturing process and improving the manufacturing yield.

 

To avoid the high cost of substantial redesign, semiconductor companies typically use technology that is scalable, which means it can be readily incorporated into multiple generations of manufacturing process technologies. Process technology generations are distinguished in terms of the dimension of the integrated circuit’s smallest topographical features, as measured in microns (one millionth of a meter). The semiconductor industry has continuously developed advanced process technologies that enable the reduction of silicon area on integrated circuits and consequently lower costs. The industry is predominantly using 0.25-micron, 0.18-micron and 0.15-micron manufacturing process technology today. However, current designs are now being implemented in 0.13-micron manufacturing process technology, and are now rapidly migrating to 0.09-micron manufacturing process technology.

 

Importance of Integration

 

For decades, the semiconductor industry has continuously increased the value of integrated circuits by improving their density, power consumption, speed and cost. The main driver for these improvements has been the success of shrinking the size of the basic semiconductor building block, or transistor. Transistors have become small enough to make it economical to combine multiple functions, such as microprocessors, graphics, memory, analog components and digital signal processors, on a single integrated circuit, or SoC. Highly integrated circuits such as SoCs often offer advantages in density, power consumption, speed and cost that cannot be matched using separate, discrete integrated circuits. SoCs are essential for most electronic products, such as cellular phones, video game consoles, communication and networking equipment and internet appliances, to achieve increasing performance requirements at a reasonable cost.

 

Importance of Embedded Memory

 

Historically, semiconductor companies implemented memory in separate integrated circuits. Rather than using separate memory chips, semiconductor companies today are embedding memory on highly integrated circuits in order to optimize performance and size. At the same time, the increasing sophistication of electronic products is driving a rapid increase in the amount of memory required. Current industry estimates are that more than half of the chip area of a SoC is comprised of embedded memory and this proportion is forecasted to increase in the future with the growth of more memory-intensive applications.

 

The high cost of incorporating the memory component represents a major challenge to achieving high levels of integration. As embedded memories account for an increasing percentage of the size of a highly integrated circuit, they are often the slowest or limiting function in the circuit.  Not only must integrated circuits contain a larger amount of embedded memory, this memory must be dense enough to be economically attractive and must offer sufficiently high speed and low power consumption.  Embedded memory has become a crucial design consideration for determining the overall cost and performance of highly integrated circuits and the growing number of electronic products in which they are incorporated.

 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Traditional SRAM

 

The most common form of embedded memory today utilizes traditional static random access memory, or SRAM technology, that we refer to as traditional SRAM. This technology is in the public domain and can be used by any semiconductor company. Traditional SRAM has the following characteristics—

 

•                                          it operates at the same high speeds as other functions of the integrated circuit;

 

•                                          it provides a simple and familiar interface that allows for quick design into an integrated circuit with less risk that the design will not function according to specification; and

 

•                                          it utilizes the standard logic manufacturing process that is both economical and the most widely available.

 

As memory requirements increase, however, traditional SRAM becomes relatively more expensive compared to the total cost of the integrated circuit. Specifically, traditional SRAM has the following drawbacks that can lead to higher cost—

 

•                                          it requires a substantial amount of silicon area because of its low density; and

 

•                                          it consumes a significant amount of power when operating at high speeds.

 

To overcome the density limitations of traditional SRAM, some manufacturers have utilized embedded dynamic random access memory, or embedded DRAM. While embedded DRAM is denser than traditional SRAM, it is typically ten times slower. Manufacturing embedded DRAM also requires additional process steps and results in low yields, which translate into increased manufacturing time and cost. Additionally, because of its complex interface requirements, embedded DRAM is more difficult to incorporate on integrated circuits, leading to a higher risk of failure. As integrated circuit designers have experimented with embedded DRAM, they have discovered that these limitations of embedded DRAM preclude its use in almost all applications. Therefore, traditional SRAM continues to be the most widely used technology for embedded memory. One of the major challenges for the semiconductor industry today is to find an embedded memory solution that combines high density, low power consumption, high speed and low cost.

 

Our Solution

 

We have developed a series of innovative memory technologies, 1T-SRAM technologies, which provide major advantages over traditional SRAM in density, power consumption and cost, thus making it more economical for designers to incorporate large amounts of embedded memory in their designs. In addition, our 1T-SRAM technologies offer all the benefits of traditional SRAM, such as high speed, simple interface and ease of manufacturability. Its core circuitry is already production proven in millions of our memory chips and offers integrated circuit designers the following characteristics compared to traditional SRAM:

 

Parameters
  
 Typical Characteristics of 1T-SRAM technologies vs. traditional SRAM
 
 
  
  
 
Density
  
 Uses 50% to 80% less silicon for the same amount of memory
 
Cost
  
 50 to 80% less cost for the same amount of memory
 
Power
  
 Can save up to three-quarters the power when operating at the same speed
 
Speed
  
 Can provide speeds equal to or greater than those offered by traditional SRAM, especially for larger memory sizes
 

 

Our 1T-SRAM technologies can achieve these advantages while utilizing standard logic manufacturing processes and providing the simple, standard SRAM interface that designers are accustomed to today.

 

High Density

 

Embedded memory utilizing our 1T-SRAM technologies is typically two to three times denser than traditional SRAM. Increased density enables manufacturers of electronic products, such as cellular phones, video game consoles and digital cameras and camcorders, to incorporate additional functionality into a single integrated circuit, resulting in overall cost savings. Semiconductor designers can take advantage of the high density of our 1T-SRAM technologies and embed large quantities of high-performance memory and other components that in the past might not have been feasible.

 

Low Power Consumption

 

Embedded memory utilizing our 1T-SRAM technologies can consume as little as one-quarter the power and generates less heat 

 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

than traditional SRAM when operating at the same speed. This feature facilitates longer battery life and reliable operation using lower-cost packaging.

 

High Speed

 

Embedded memory utilizing our 1T-SRAM technologies typically provides speeds equal to or greater than the speeds of traditional SRAM, especially for larger memory sizes. Our 1T-SRAM memory designs can sustain random access cycle times of less than three nanoseconds. In today’s 0.13-micron manufacturing process technology, our 1T-SRAM technologies can operate with a random access frequency in excess of 400 megahertz for multi-megabit memory.

 

Manufacturing Process Independence

 

We have been able to implement our technology without requiring the manufacturer to make any significant changes to either standard logic or alternative manufacturing processes. 1T-SRAM’s portability, or the ease with which it can be implemented in different semiconductor manufacturing facilities, has been proven operational in the fabrication of chips at Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd., or TSMC, United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., the world’s three largest independent foundries. 1T-SRAM’s scalability, or the ease with which it can be implemented in different generations of manufacturing processes, has already been demonstrated in the fabrication of chips in 0.25-micron, 0.22-micron, 0.18-micron, 0.15-micron, 0.13-micron and 0.09-micron process generations. We expect our technology to continue to scale readily to future process generations. This portability and scalability provides for wide availability, inexpensive implementation and quick product time to market for our licensees.

 

Simplicity of Interface

 

Our 1T-SRAM technologies’ internal circuitry connects to the simple, standard SRAM interface that designers are accustomed to today. Our use of this standard high-performance interface minimizes design time, thus optimizing time to market for our licensees. This simple interface also helps minimize the risk that integrated circuit designs will not operate according to specifications.

 

Our Strategy

 

Our goal is to establish our 1T-SRAM technologies as the standard for all large embedded memories in SoC applications. We intend to achieve this goal by licensing our technology on a non-exclusive and worldwide basis to foundries, integrated device manufacturers, fabless semiconductor companies and electronic product manufacturers.

 

We have extended the coverage of our technologies to smaller memory blocks by offering our 6T-SRAM memory compilers.  Utilizing the same low-power benefits built into our 1T-SRAM technologies, our licensees can have a complete range of low-powered embedded memory solutions to meet their demanding SoC requirements.

 

The following are integral aspects of our strategy.

 

Target Large and Growing Markets

 

We target the large and growing market for system-on-a-chip applications. We offer our 1T-SRAM technologies that offer chip designers improved performance in embedded memories thus optimizing the cost and performance of the SoC.

 

Although our 1T-SRAM technologies are applicable to many markets, we presently focus on the rapidly growing consumer electronics and communications electronics sectors. These sectors increasingly require embedded memory solutions with higher density, lower power consumption, higher speeds and lower cost. We will also focus over the longer term on other markets that are projected to achieve strong, long-term growth.

 

Work Closely with Semiconductor Companies and Foundries to Deliver Optimal Technology Solutions

 

We intend to continue to work closely with semiconductor companies to gain broad and detailed insight into their own and their customers’ current and next-generation technology requirements. This insight helps us identify trends and focus our development efforts on optimizing our technology solution, resulting in shorter product time to market and lower costs.

 

We also plan to qualify and license our technology with the leading foundries. Our close relationships with these foundries allow us insight into changing market requirements and access to advance manufacturing processes.

 

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Extend our Technology Offerings

 

Our goal is to continue to enhance our 1T-SRAM technologies and increase our share of the embedded memory market. We will continue to develop our technology in order to offer even higher-density, lower-power consumption, higher-speed and lower-cost designs for our licensees. As such, we continue to invest heavily in research to develop more advanced memory technologies and since the introduction of 1T-SRAM in 1998, we have introduced and currently offer the following improved versions of the technology:

 

•                                          1T-SRAM-R, a version that includes Transparent Error Correction™ (TEC), which automatically corrects memory errors during operation, including soft errors caused by high-energy particles, and eliminates the need for laser repair in manufacturing test. This is accomplished without adding silicon area or cost. Introduced in November 2001, our 1T-SRAM-R has now become the standard version of 1T-SRAM in most of our licensing activities.

 

•                                          1T-SRAM-M, a lower power version that is well-suited to particular applications requiring very low operating and standby power, such as cell phone handsets, digital cameras, personal digital assistants and other consumer wireless devices. We introduced our 1T-SRAM-M in April 2001.

 

•                                          1T-SRAM-Q, an extended density memory that has twice the density of the original version of our technology and up to four times the density of traditional SRAM.  We introduced our 1T-SRAM-Q in December 2002.

 

•                                          6T-SRAM-R, a memory compiler built on the same technologies that deliver the quality and low-power advantages offered by our 1T-SRAM technologies for large memories are now incorporated into our 6T-SRAM-R compilers to extend these benefits to small memories, those less than one megabit in size, in customers’ chip designs.  The compiler, along with our 1T-SRAM technologies, offers semiconductor designers a complete range of embedded memories to meet their demanded SoC requirements.

 

We have developed new generations of our 1T-SRAM technologies, most recently in the 0.09-micron manufacturing process, and intend to continue to develop our technologies for future process generations.

 

Focus on Higher-Margin Licensing Model

 

The licensing of our intellectual property consists of licensing and royalty revenues. These revenue sources produce higher gross margins than can be achieved from the sale of our memory chips. In particular, royalties received from our licensees have no associated cost. Therefore, we will continue to focus on the licensing of our intellectual property as the major source of our future revenue.

 

Licensing and Distribution Strategy

 

We offer our technology on a non-exclusive and worldwide basis to semiconductor companies, electronic product manufacturers, foundries, intellectual property companies and design companies through product development, technology licensing and joint marketing relationships.

 

Licensing

 

We license our technology to semiconductor companies who incorporate our technology into integrated circuits that they then sell to their customers. We also license our technology to electronic product manufacturers, who then require their suppliers to adopt our technology. In addition, we engage in joint marketing activities with foundries, intellectual property companies and design companies to promote our technology to a wide base of customers. These distribution channels have broadened the acceptance and availability of our technology in the industry. As our technology becomes available through an increasing number of channels, we believe it will be less likely that customers will have to alter their procurement practices in order to acquire our technology. We intend to continue to expand significantly this base of strategic relationships to further proliferate our technology.

 

We form product development and licensing relationships directly with semiconductor companies and electronic product manufacturers. Generally, we require the prospective licensee to identify one or more specific projects for the use of our technology. The prospective licensee’s implementation of our 1T-SRAM technologies typically includes customized development. Usually, these relationships involve both engineering work to implement our technology in the specified product and licensing the technology for manufacture and sale of the product. Although the precise terms contained in our 1T-SRAM macro development and license agreements

 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

vary, every agreement provides for the payment of contract fees to us at the beginning of the contract and the joint development of specifications and initial product design and engineering. The agreements usually provide for payment of contract fees to us upon the achievement of specified development milestones. The agreements also often provide for the payment of additional contract fees if we provide engineering or manufacturing support services related to the manufacture of the product. Provisions in all of our license agreements require the payment of royalties to us based on the future sale or manufacture of products utilizing our 1T-SRAM technologies. Generally, our licenses grant rights on a nonexclusive, nontransferable basis, limited to the use of our technology as modified for the project covered by the license agreement or amendment.  Our license agreements generally have a fixed five-year term and are subject to renewal.  Each new project requires a separate agreement or an addendum to modify an existing agreement.

 

In addition, we also offer our technology to semiconductor companies through 1T-SRAM technology license agreements, under which we grant the licensee the additional right to create and modify 1T-SRAM designs to offer to its own customers.  The contract fees associated with these arrangements require the licensee to pay us to port our technology to its manufacturing process and develop a template design that the licensee will be able to use to generate future designs.  These agreements also obligate the licensee to pay contract fees to us upon the achievement of specified development milestones and may provide for the payment of additional contract fees if we provide engineering or manufacturing support services. Under these agreements we will be entitled to receive royalties based on the future sale or manufacture of products utilizing our 1T-SRAM technologies. The licenses are nonexclusive and nontransferable and authorize the licensee to modify designs for its customers from the template design that we provide under the agreement.   Typically, the template design applies only to a specified manufacturing process generation.  The licensee may add future process generations to the license agreement for additional contract fees.

 

Joint Marketing Arrangement

 

We have formed joint marketing relationships with dedicated foundries such as TSMC, UMC and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation. These foundries have cooperated with us to prove the manufacturability of integrated circuits utilizing our 1T-SRAM technologies in their particular manufacturing process. Once manufacturability has been proven, the foundries can then offer their manufacturing services to our licensees, and their integrated circuit device customers can fabricate integrated circuits incorporating our 1T-SRAM technologies.

 

We also have formed an alliance consisting of design service firms to enable our licensees to more rapidly incorporate 1T-SRAM technologies into their design. This Design Services Alliance (DSA) program is intended to provide our licensees with specialized support as the use of our technology in SoC designs increases. Each DSA member company has been trained to provide our licensees with design expertise and product engineering resources in order to reduce the design cycle time as well as accelerate the ramp to volume production.

 

Proliferate Technology through a Diverse Distribution Strategy

 

We license the 1T-SRAM technologies in the form of customized memory designs, standard memory designs and memory compilers. We also offer technology licenses, which allow our licensee to create our 1T-SRAM designs for its customers, to strategic semiconductor technology providers, in order to achieve a boarder distribution of our technologies.  Not all of our technology relationships will result in the manufacture and sale of royalty-bearing products by our licensees, from which we expect to earn most of our revenues in the future. Therefore, to increase the number of royalty-generating license agreements for our 1T-SRAM technologies, an important element of our strategy is to offer these technologies broadly in order to establish it as an industry standard.

 

We have license agreements with many companies, including Agere Systems, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Analog Devices, Inc., Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, eSilicon Corporation, Fujitsu Limited, Hitachi, Ltd., Hudson Soft Company Limited, LG Electronics, Inc., LSI Logic Corporation, Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., Matsushita Communication Industrial Co., Ltd., Motorola, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, NEC Electronics Corporation, Nintendo, Philips Semiconductors, Inc., Pixelworks, Inc., Pixim, Inc., Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., SONY Corporation, Stepmind SA, Switchcore AB, TSMC, UMC, Via Technologies, Inc., and Via Networking Technologies, Inc.

 

Custom Memory Designs

 

We offer directly to our licensees customized 1T-SRAM memory designs to meet their specific design parameters. We also offer a variety of options for optimizing the design specification in order to improve performance and cost effectiveness.

 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Standard Macro Designs

 

In addition to licensing our customized 1T-SRAM designs, companies also can license standard 1T-SRAM off-the-shelf memory designs from us. These readily available standard memory designs can assist the licensee in getting its SoC quickly to market.

 

Memory Compilers

 

In December 2002, we announced our first 1T-SRAM compiler for 0.15-micron standard logic processes available for the leading foundries. We offer licenses to use these compilers, which will enable our customers to automatically generate and configure memory designs utilizing our technologies directly from our website. The memory designs produced from our compilers are intended for applications requiring smaller sizes of embedded memory.

 

In January 2004, we introduced our 6T-SRAM-R memory compilers to offer our customers a low power alternative to traditional embedded six-transistor SRAM in applications requiring smaller memory sizes.  We plan to offer future compiler products on advanced generations of manufacturing processes.

 

Our compilers are offered on a per use basis or under an unlimited use license for fees ranging from ten of thousands of dollars to several hundred thousands of dollars.  As with all of our technologies, the licensee is obligated to pay us royalties for products manufactured or sold utilizing our technologies.

 

Technology Licenses

 

We have licensed our technologies to the leading foundries; TSMC and UMC.  Increasingly, these foundries are now providing design services and third-party intellectual property directly to their customers. Under our technology license agreements, both TSMC and UMC have acquired a right to offer as part of their design services, 1T-SRAM designs that they create for their customers.  Our license agreements with TSMC and UMC require them to pay us licensing and development fees, as well as royalties on silicon wafers manufactured by these foundries that incorporate our licensed technology and a percentage of the design fees that they charged for delivering our technology.

 

We also offer and have licensed our technologies to leading integrated device manufacturers or, IDMs, under technology license agreements.  Under our technology license agreement with Fujitsu Limited, which is our first IDM technology licensee, we have granted Fujitsu a worldwide non-exclusive, non-transferable right to offer its own implementation of our 1T-SRAM technologies directly to its customers along with its own design and manufacturing services.  Fujitsu has agreed to pay us a license fee for our services in porting our 1T-SRAM technologies to Fujitsu’s manufacturing process.  Fujitsu also is obligated to pay us fees for technical support for the first year, and for each additional year thereafter if it requests such support. Further, we will be entitled to receive royalties on all integrated circuits incorporating our licensed technologies that are sold by Fujitsu and its subsidiaries.

 

Product Sales

 

SRAM memory chips satisfy a market demand for high-speed memory chips used to store data in electronic products. There are several large companies that have chosen to manufacture SRAM chips using traditional technology. Like our 1T-SRAM embedded memory technology, our 1T-SRAM chips have small memory cell circuitry, requiring low power consumption and operating at high speeds, which makes them a cost effective memory chip solution for networking and date communication applications, such as routers, switches and network processors.

 

Such data communications applications typically require memory chips in industry standard sizes and speeds. The memory size of a chip indicates the number of memory storage bits on the chip and its speed reflects the rate at which a processing system can access the memory.

 

In order to appeal to manufacturers of wired data communications applications, we currently sell memory chips with memory size, speed and configuration specifications consistent with those offered by most memory chip suppliers. We sell these memory chips primarily to suppliers of previous generations of communications equipment, such as Delta Network and Electronics, Flextronics, Maxtek Technology, MCM Japan, and Motorola. As the demand for this equipment has diminished, our sales of 1T-SRAM memory chips have declined substantially. Because we lack manufacturing resources and other guaranteed sources of supply for 1T-SRAM memory chips, we intend to allocate most of our engineering resources to the development of 1T-SRAM technologies in support of our licensing business, instead of rebuilding our product sales business.  Therefore, we anticipate a continued decline in our product sales volume.

 

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Technology

 

Our innovative 1T-SRAM technologies include many new and proprietary features.  Development of our memory chips during the early years of our existence was critical to validating elements of the 1T-SRAM technologies we license today.  These technologies combine the high-density advantages of DRAM with the high performance and utility of SRAM.  Underlying this technology are several distinct pieces of our proprietary technology.

 

Single-Transistor Memory Storage Cell

 

The high density of our 1T-SRAM technologies stems from the use of a single-transistor, or 1T, which is similar to DRAM, with a storage cell for each bit of information. Our 1T storage cell using one transistor and one capacitor represents a very significant improvement in density over the six-transistor storage cells used by traditional SRAM.

 

The following diagrams, drawn to scale, but not to actual size, are electrical schematics of the traditional SRAM storage cell and our 1T-SRAM storage cell. The comparison of the two diagrams illustrates the small size and reduced complexity of the 1T-SRAM storage cell. This results in significant cost savings because less silicon space is required by 1T-SRAM storage cells.

 



 

MultiBank Technology

 

The high speed and low power consumption of 1T-SRAM are enabled by our MultiBank technology, as illustrated above. This technology efficiently partitions the memory into many, typically hundreds, of fast, small sub-blocks of memory, or banks, that can operate independently over high-speed data buses. Only one small bank containing the required memory data must be active for each access to the memory. Therefore, the remaining banks can stay in a low-power, standby mode, reducing the overall power consumption of the memory.

 

8


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 



 

Pipelined Self-timed Access

 

The easy to use standard SRAM interface of 1T-SRAM technologies is enabled by our innovative and proprietary circuit designs, generating all the necessary dynamic memory array operation timing signals transparently to user’s application.

 

Refresh Management Circuitry

 

Refresh operations required to ensure data is maintained to a minimum level in dynamic cells may be performed transparently to a user’s application, allowing designers to fully disregard to any of the traditional requirements of dynamic cell arrays.

 

Leakage Suppression Circuitry

 

Our unique patented architecture, circuits and proprietary design techniques that manage process leakage allow MoSys’ 1T-SRAM technologies to be manufactured on any CMOS process, including generic ASIC processes, thus removing the need for complicated embedded memory process development.

 

Transparent Error Correction (TEC)

 

We offer our 1T-SRAM technologies with TEC for higher reliability and quality.  TEC automatically corrects memory errors during operation, including soft errors caused by high-energy particles, and eliminates the need for laser repair in manufacturing test. This is accomplished without adding any additional silicon area or cost.  TEC is also incorporated into our 6T-SRAM-R memory compilers extending the same benefits provided in our 1T-SRAM technologies to the small memory block requirements in customers’ chip designs.

 

Folded Area Capacitor (FAC)

 

Using an innovative capacitor technology called Folded Area Capacitor (FAC), we can provide our licensees with a very high-density memory solution.  Requiring only one additional non-critical mask during the manufacturing process, utilizing our Folded Area Capacitor, our 1T-SRAM-Q can achieve densities up to four times that of traditional SRAM and twice the density of the original version of our technology.

 

Advanced Manufacturing Processes

 

We continue to implement our 1T-SRAM technologies on advanced generations of manufacturing processes. As a result, our licensees are able to implement integrated circuits incorporating 1T-SRAM embedded memories on the highest performance

 

9


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

manufacturing processes available. The chart below illustrates the advances we have made in implementing and verifying 1T-SRAM technologies on the latest generations of manufacturing processes. The processes with the smaller micron dimensions have higher random access speeds and typically enable larger capacity memories.

 

Process Generation
  
 0.18-micron
  
 0.15-micron
  
 0.13-micron
  
 0.09-micron
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Date of 1T-SRAM Verification
  
 January 2000
  
 May 2000
  
 April 2001
  
 January 2003
  
 
Typical Memory
  
 1-32
  
 1-48
  
 1-64
  
 1-64
  
 
Capacity
  
 megabits
  
 megabits
  
 megabits
  
 megabits
  
 
Random Access Speed
  
 100-350 MHz
  
 100-400 MHz
  
 100-450 MHz
  
 100-450 MHz
  
 

 
Research and Development
 

Our ability to compete in the future will depend on improving our technology to meet the market’s increasing demand for higher performance and lower cost requirements. We have assembled a team of highly skilled engineers whose activities are focused on developing even higher-density, lower-power consumption, higher-speed and lower-cost 1T-SRAM designs. We expect to continue to focus our research and development efforts on extending our 1T-SRAM technologies and developing new memory technologies. We also intend to continue our focus on porting our technology to additional semiconductor manufacturing facilities and scaling our technology to new generations of manufacturing process technologies.

 

As of December 31, 2003, we employed 67 engineers, representing 73% of our employees, with specific expertise in circuit design, layout and a variety of manufacturing processes. In June 2001, we established a design center in Seoul, South Korea where nine of our engineers reside. In August 30, 2002, we completed our acquisition of ATMOS Corporation where we currently employ 18 engineers in our research and development group. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, research and development expenditures totaled approximately $8.6 million, $6.6 million and $4.4 million, respectively.

 

Sales and Marketing

 

Licensing

 

As of December 31, 2003, we had a staff of nine sales and marketing executives managing our technology licensing activities. One is located in Sophia-Antipolis, France and is responsible for licensing activities in Europe and the Middle East. Another is located in Tokyo, Japan and is responsible for licensing activities in Japan. This group manages the negotiation of license agreements, provides technical support during the sales cycle to licensees and administers the contracts. As we have multiple sales channels through our relationships with semiconductor companies, foundries, intellectual property companies and design companies, we do not believe that we require a large internal sales force. Our marketing and promotional activities include participation in industry trade shows, distribution of collateral marketing material, publication of articles in trade journals and publicizing our licensing activities and technology achievements. We also provide presentations and working sessions with the senior technical and business staff of prospective customers.

 

Memory Chips

 

A portion of our sales and marketing group is also responsible for sales and marketing of our memory chips. Their marketing activities include the creation of marketing materials and articles for trade publications. We also use 19 independent sales representatives throughout North America, Europe and Asia to promote our memory chips to their customers.

 

Intellectual Property

 

We regard our patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights. As of December 31, 2003, we held 64 U.S. patents on various aspects of our technology, with expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2023. These 64 patents include claims relating to multibank partitioning, 1T-SRAM internal operation and circuit techniques, high-speed operation techniques, 1T-SRAM refresh management techniques and the interface of embedded 1T-SRAM storage cells in logic processes. We currently have 15 pending U.S. patent applications, and have received notices of allowance with respect to five of these applications. We also hold 36 foreign patents with expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2022, and we have 26 pending foreign patent applications. There can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us, or that we will be able to enforce our patents against infringement.

 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. While 

 

10


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

we have not received formal notice of any infringement of the rights of any third party, questions of infringement in the semiconductor field involve highly technical and subjective analyses. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any future litigation. Any such litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, would be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from normal business operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse determinations in litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from licensing our technology, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our technology is or may in the future be licensed may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, thus increasing the possibility of infringement of our intellectual property.

 

Competition

 

In order to remain competitive, we believe we must continue to provide higher-density, lower-power-consumption, higher-speed and lower-cost technology solutions to the semiconductor industry and electronic product manufacturers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry are—

 

•                                          density and cost;

 

•                                          power consumption;

 

•                                          speed;

 

•                                          portability to different manufacturing processes;

 

•                                          scalability to different manufacturing process generations;

 

•                                          reliability and low manufacturing costs;

 

•                                          interface requirements; and

 

•                                          the ease with which technology can be customized for and incorporated into customers’ products.

 

We believe that our 1T-SRAM technologies offer a high degree of overall performance improvement over traditional SRAM. In addition, we have added our 6T-SRAM-R memory compilers which incorporate many of the features built into our 1T-SRAM technologies to deliver a higher standard of quality, combined with a much lower power requirement than other existing traditional SRAM embedded memory.  Semiconductor companies may satisfy their embedded memory needs through traditional SRAM and embedded DRAM. Traditional SRAM relies on publicly available process technology and circuit designs, which semiconductor companies can build internally or acquire through a license from a third party provider, without paying a royalty to us. Companies providing traditional SRAM embedded memories include Artisan Components and Virage Logic, who license their memories through the sale of compilers.  Embedded DRAM is primarily offered by current or former DRAM suppliers, who utilize their own manufacturing process to compete in the semiconductor foundry business. Suppliers of embedded DRAM include substantial competitors such as Toshiba Ltd. and IBM, among others. Although each of these two embedded DRAM suppliers has experienced some success in obtaining new customers for its technology, we believe that many semiconductor companies using embedded memory may prefer to license our technology instead of implementing either of these alternatives because of 1T-SRAM’s overall advantages.

 

Not all embedded memory applications benefit sufficiently from technological advantages offered by our 1T-SRAM technologies to justify the increased cost to the licensee, however. Our licensees and prospective licensees can meet their current needs for embedded memory using other memory solutions with different cost and performance parameters. For example, our technologies are not suitable for replacing lower-cost traditional DRAM memory chips if higher access speed is unnecessary.  In addition, alternative solutions may be more cost-effective for memory block sizes of less than 1 megabit, or applications in which the embedded memory portion is less than 20% of the total chip area.  To provide a technology offering for these uses, however, in January 2004 we introduced our 6T-SRAM-R memory compilers which incorporate the same quality and low-power advantages available in our 1T-SRAM technologies and extend these benefits to the small memories in customers’ chip designs

 

Moreover, some companies assess greater uncertainty and risk in relying on our newly established 1T-SRAM technologies. As a result, our ability to compete effectively may be limited because such companies may prefer to use more established traditional memory solutions that are freely available without a license.

 

11


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Customers for our 1T-SRAM memory chips can choose to purchase SRAM memory chips from a number of companies, including Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, Integrated Device Technology, Inc. and Samsung Corporation. These suppliers utilize traditional architecture and technology for their SRAM chips, which do not match the performance, low power and cost effectiveness of our 1T-SRAM memory chips for the applications needed by our current customers for these chips. However, these suppliers do have the advantage of supplying memory chips from their own wafer manufacturing plants and typically offer a broad range of memory products that includes devices other than SRAM memory chips. In addition, these companies have greater access to financial, technical and other resources than we possess and are able to compete more effectively for most of the SRAM business.

 

Manufacturing

 

We have designed the circuitry of our 1T-SRAM technologies so that our licensees can manufacture it in standard logic process, as well as other widely used embedded memory processes.

 

For our stand-alone memory products, we implement a fabless manufacturing strategy by using relationships with independent foundries. Today, we rely exclusively upon TSMC for our stand-alone product manufacturing. We also use domestic and offshore subcontractors for assembly, testing and packaging. Assembly and test services provided by these subcontractors comply with the requirements of ISO-9000. We presently have no firm, written commitment with any semiconductor foundry for the fabrication of our memory chips. All fabrication is conducted on a purchase-order basis at an agreed price that is renegotiated from time to time.

 

Employees

 

As of December 31, 2003, we had 92 full-time employees, consisting of 67 in research and development and engineering, 13 in sales and marketing, 11 in finance and administration and one in operations. We believe our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified technical and management personnel, particularly highly skilled design engineers involved in new product development, for whom competition is intense. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we have not experienced any work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are good.

 

Recent Development

 

On February 23, 2004, Synopsys, Inc., or Synopsys, Mountain Acquisition Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Synopsys, or, Acquisition Sub, and we, entered into a definitive agreement and plan of merger and reorganization, or reorganization agreement, which contemplates the acquisition by Synopsys, through Acquisition Sub, of all of our outstanding common stock in a two-step transaction comprised of a combination cash and stock exchange offer for all of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock for consideration valued at an aggregate of $13.50 per share, followed by our merger with Acquisition Sub. In the offer, each share of our common stock validly tendered (and not withdrawn) would be converted into a combination of $6.75 in cash and a fraction of a share of Synopsys common stock having a value of $6.75 based on a formula set forth in the reorganization agreement. Synopsys has the right, at any time through the date two business days prior to the expiration date of the offer (as it may be extended from time to time), to convert the offer into an all-cash tender offer, in which case each share of our common stock would be converted into $13.50 in cash.

 

The reorganization agreement provides that Acquisition Sub will commence the offer as promptly as reasonably practicable after February 23, 2004. The obligation of Acquisition Sub to accept for exchange and deliver consideration for shares of our common stock validly tendered in the offer (and not withdrawn) is subject to usual and customary conditions pertaining to regulatory events, the absence of a court order barring the Merger and the related transactions and the absence of material litigation or other events giving rise to termination of the reorganization agreement, as well as the following specific conditions: 

 

•              there shall be validly tendered (and not withdrawn) a number of shares of our common stock that, together with any shares that Synopsys or Acquisition Sub already owns, represents 50% of the sum of the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the acceptance of shares of the common stock pursuant to the offer, plus the aggregate number of shares of our common stock that can be issued upon the exercise of all vested options, warrants and other rights to acquire our common stock that are outstanding immediately prior to the acceptance of shares of our common stock pursuant to the offer (the “Minimum Condition”); 

 

•              that Fu-Chieh Hsu and Wing-Yu Leung continue to be employed by the Issuer; 

 

•              no more than 25% of the engineers employed by us who have received offers of at-will employment from Synopsys or Acquisition Sub, on terms no less favorable then the terms of their employment with us on the date of the reorganization agreement, shall cease to be employed by us; 

 

•              there is no legal proceeding threatened or pending to which a governmental body is or is threatened to become a party challenging or seeking to restrain or prohibit the acquisition of or delivery of consideration in exchange for shares of common stock or seeking to prohibit or limit Synopsys’ ownership rights with respect to our common stock acquired through the offer; 

 

•              the shares of Synopsys common stock to be issued

 

12


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

in the merger (if the All-Cash Election is not made) have been approved for listing on the NASDAQ National Market; and 

 

•              that Fu-Chieh Hsu and Wing-Yu Leung have executed noncompetition agreements and delivered them to Synopsys.

 

The offer will initially be scheduled to expire 20 business days following the commencement of the offer.  At the election of Acquisition Sub or us, prior to such expiration, if the Minimum Condition is not met, the offer period may be extended for additional periods of 20 business days, but in no case are such extensions to continue beyond July 31, 2004.

 

If Acquisition Sub acquires at least a majority of our outstanding common stock pursuant to the offer, the reorganization agreement provides that Synopsys will be entitled to designate a number of directors to our board of directors sufficient to give Acquisition Sub a proportionate representation on the board (“Acquisition Sub’s Proportionate Representation”) equal to that number of directors (rounded up to the next whole number) that equals the product of the total number of directors on the board multiplied by the percentage that the aggregate number of shares of our common stock beneficially owned by Synopsys or Acquisition Sub bears to the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding.  Upon request by Acquisition Sub, we will increase the size of the board or secure the resignations of the number of directors necessary to provide Acquisition Sub with Acquisition Sub’s Proportionate Representation and will cause Synopsys’ designees to be so elected or appointed; provided, however, that until the merger, the board will have at least two directors who were our directors as of the date of signing of the reorganization agreement (or failing the availability of one or both of such directors, a designee of the other such director or the Board).

 

Following the election or appointment of Synopsys’ designees and until the effective time of the reorganization agreement, approval of a majority of the continuing directors who were our directors as of the date of signing the reorganization agreement shall be required for (a) the amendment or waiver of the reorganization agreement on behalf of the Company or the certificate or bylaws of the Company; (b) any termination of the reorganization agreement by the Company; (c) any extension affecting the performance of any obligations or acts by Synopsys or Acquisition Sub; or (d) any other consent or action by the board with respect to the reorganization agreement.

 

The reorganization agreement prohibits us from declaring, setting aside for payment or paying any dividend, or making any other distribution in respect of any shares of its common stock or otherwise making any payments to its stockholders in their capacity as such.

 

If adoption of the merger by a vote of our stockholders is required by applicable law, under the terms of the reorganization agreement, we will take all necessary actions to comply with such applicable law.

 

If the requirements of the offer are fulfilled, including the Minimum Condition, and if Synopsys so elects, then

 

•                  Upon consummation of the merger, our common stock will cease to be quoted on any quotation system or exchange.

 

•                  Upon consummation of the merger, our common stock will become eligible for termination of registration pursuant to Section 12(g)(4) of the Exchange Act.

 

Concurrently with the execution of the reorganization agreement, Fu-Chieh Hsu, Wingyu Leung, Carl Berg, who are members of our board of directors, and Clyde J. Berg, Trustee of the 1981 Kara Ann Berg Trust, who together represent approximately 29% of our outstanding stock, entered into a separate stockholder agreement with Synopsys.  Each of them has agreed to tender (and not to withdraw his tender) the shares of common stock that he beneficially owns into the offer. Each stockholder agreement also provides that prior to the tender of his shares of common stock pursuant to the offer, each such stockholder is obligated to vote the shares of common stock beneficially owned by him 

 

•              in favor of the merger, the adoption of the reorganization agreement and the approval of the terms thereof and the transactions contemplated therein; 

 

•           against any action or agreement that would result in a breach in any material respect of any covenant or any other obligation or agreement of ours under the reorganization agreement or in a breach in any material respect of any representation or warranty of ours in the reorganization agreement; 

 

•              against any amendment of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws or any other action or agreement that is intended or could reasonably be expected to impede, interfere with, delay, postpone or discourage the offer or the merger or change in any manner the voting rights of our common stock.  Pursuant to each stockholder agreement, each such stockholder has granted an irrevocable proxy to Synopsys to vote his shares of common stock on the matters listed above, which will expire on the earlier of the date upon which the reorganization agreement is terminated in accordance with its provisions, and the date upon which the merger becomes effective.  Each stockholder retains the power to vote his shares of common stock on all other matters.

 

The stockholder agreements automatically terminate upon consummation of the merger, upon any amendment to the reorganization agreement without our consent that decreases the per share merger consideration or upon termination of the reorganization agreement in accordance with its terms.  The reorganization agreement may be terminated by—

 

•              mutual consent of Synopsys and us; 

 

•              either Synopsys or us if a court or governmental body issues an order permanently enjoining or making illegal the merger; 

 

•              either Synopsys or us if the offer expires without Synopsys having accepted any shares of our common stock or if the offer shall not have been accepted by July 31, 2004; 

 

•              Synopsys if our board retracts its recommendation of the transaction; 

 

•              us to accept an unsolicited, bona fide written offer by a third party to purchase all of the outstanding shares of our common stock, after the board of directors determines, consistent with its obligations under the reorganization agreement and its fiduciary duties, that such third party offer is more favorable to our stockholders than the Synopsys offer, after providing Synopsys with an opportunity to amend the offer or enter into an 

 

13


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

                alternative transaction with the Issuer and then after paying a termination fee to Synopsys of $10 million;

 

•              Synopsys if our representations and warranties are materially inaccurate, such that there has been a material adverse effect on the Issuer, or any of our covenants shall have been materially breached, after we have had an opportunity to cure such breach or inaccuracy, and after paying the Issuer a termination fee of $10 million; 

 

•              us if any of Synopsys’ representations and warranties are materially inaccurate or if its covenants are materially breached, which causes a material adverse effect on Synopsys’ ability to consummate the merger, and after Synopsys has had an opportunity to cure such breach or inaccuracy; or 

 

•              Synopsys if a material adverse effect shall have occurred or is reasonably likely to occur with respect to us, and after paying us a termination fee of $10 million.

 

During the term of each stockholder agreement, the participating stockholder has agreed, except as otherwise contemplated by the stockholder agreement, not to grant any proxies relating to, or sell, transfer, give, pledge, encumber, assign or otherwise dispose of any shares of common stock.  Any additional shares of common stock acquired by such stockholder during the term of the reorganization agreement also will be subject to the stockholder agreement.

 

We and our board of directors believe that the combination with Synopsys will significantly enhance our ability to realize our strategic goals.  With the greater engineering, sales and financial resources possessed by Synopsys, and its substantial distribution channels, we believe we will be able to more rapidly proliferate our 1T-SRAM technologies, increase the volume of our licensing activities, increase the number of design projects that we can manage, innovate more quickly, penetrate more accounts and substantially increase revenue from our intellectual property licensing activities.

 

Risk Factors

 

If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly.

 

Our success depends upon the semiconductor market’s acceptance of our 1T-SRAM technologies.

 

The future prospects of our business depend on the acceptance by our target markets of our 1T-SRAM technologies for embedded memory applications and any future technology we might develop. Our technology is intended to allow our licensees to develop embedded memory integrated circuits to replace other embedded memory technology with different cost and performance parameters. Our 1T-SRAM technologies utilize fundamentally different internal circuitry that is not widely known in the semiconductor industry. Therefore, one of our principal challenges, which we might fail to meet, is to convince a substantial percentage of SOC designers to adopt our technology instead of other memory solutions which have proven effective in their products.

 

An important part of our strategy to gain market acceptance is to penetrate new markets by targeting market leaders as licensees of our technology. This strategy is designed to encourage other participants in those markets to follow these leaders in adopting our technology. Should a high-profile industry participant adopt our technology for one or more of its products but fail to achieve success with those products, other industry participants’ perception of our technology could be harmed. Any such event could reduce the number of future licenses of our technology. Likewise, were a market leader to adopt and achieve success with a competing technology, our reputation and licensing program could be harmed.

 

Our embedded memory technology might not integrate as well as anticipated with other semiconductor functions in all intended applications, which would slow or prevent adoption of our technology and reduce our revenue. Detailed aspects of our technology could cause unforeseen problems in the efficient integration of our technology with other functions of particular integrated circuits. Any significant compatibility problems with our technology could reduce the attractiveness of our solution, impede its acceptance in the industry and result in a decrease in demand for our technology.

 

Our lengthy licensing cycle and our licensees’ lengthy product development cycles make the operating results of our licensing business difficult to predict.

 

We anticipate difficulty in accurately predicting the timing and amounts of revenue generated from licensing our 1T-SRAM technologies. The establishment of a business relationship with a potential licensee is a lengthy process, generally taking from three to nine months, and sometimes longer. Following the establishment of the relationship, the negotiation of licensing terms can be time-consuming, and a potential licensee may require an extended evaluation and testing period.

 

Once a license agreement has been executed, the timing and amount of licensing and royalty revenue from our licensing business will remain difficult to predict. The completion of the licensees’ development projects and the commencement of production will be subject to the licensees’ efforts, development risks and other factors outside our control. Our royalty revenue may depend on such factors as success of the licensees’ project, the licensees’ production and shipment volumes, the timing of product shipments and when the licensees report to us the manufacture or sale of products that include our 1T-SRAM technologies. All of these factors will prevent us from making predictions of revenue with any certainty and could cause us to experience substantial period-to-period

 

14


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

fluctuations in operating results.

 

None of our licensees are under any obligation to incorporate our technology in any present or future product or to pursue the manufacture or sale of any product incorporating our technology. A licensee’s decision to complete a project or manufacture a product is subject to changing economic, marketing or strategic factors. The long development cycle of our licensees’ products increases the risk that these factors will cause the licensee to change its plans. In the past, some of our licensees have discontinued development of products incorporating our technology. These customers’ decisions were based on factors unrelated to our technology, but, as a result, it is unlikely that we will receive royalties in connection with those products. We expect that occasionally our licensees will discontinue a product line or cancel a product introduction, which could adversely affect our future operating results and business.

 

If the market for system-on-a-chip integrated circuits does not expand, our business may suffer.

 

Our ability to achieve sustained revenue growth and profitability in the future will depend on the continued development of the market for SoC integrated circuits. SoC integrated circuits are characterized by rapid technological change and competition from an increasing number of alternate design strategies such as combining multiple integrated circuits to create a system-on-a-package. We cannot be certain that the market for SoC integrated circuits will continue to develop or grow at a rate sufficient to support our business.  If the market fails to grow or develops slower than expected, our business may suffer.

 

The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and subject to periodic downturns, which can negatively affect our revenue.

 

The semiconductor industry is cyclical and has experienced a pronounced downturn over the past few years.  To respond to this downturn, many semiconductor manufacturers and their customer have slowed their research and development activities, canceled or delayed new product developments, reduced their workforces and inventories and taken a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies.  As a result, our business has been adversely affected in 2003, and we believe that a continued downturn could negatively impact our future revenue and profitability.  In the future, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from year-to-year, which also may tend to increase the volatility of the price of our common stock.

 

We might be unable to deliver our customized memory technology in the time frame demanded by our licensees, which could damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract future licensees and impact operating results.

 

The majority of our licenses require us to customize our 1T-SRAM technologies within a certain delivery timetable. Not all of the factors relating to this customization are within our control. There might be factors outside our control that could influence our ability to meet the time requirements under these licenses. Any failure to meet significant license milestones could damage our reputation in the industry, harm our ability to attract new licensees, preclude our receipt of licensing fees and negatively impact our operating results.

 

Generating and recognizing licensing revenue under these contracts depends on our ability to successfully meet milestones for delivery of 1T-SRAM designs and services.  We may fail to meet a delivery date or performance criterion, thereby resulting in a delay in revenue recognition or loss of anticipated revenue.

 

Our business model relies on royalties as a key component in the licensing of our technologies, and if we fail to realize expected royalties our operating results will suffer.

 

We believe that our long-term success is substantially dependent on the receipt of future royalties.  Royalty payments owed to us are calculated based on factors such as our licensees’ selling prices, wafer production, and other variables as provided in each license agreement.  The amount of royalties we will receive depends on the licensees’ business success, production volumes and other factors beyond our control.  This exposes our business model to risks that we cannot minimize directly and may result in significant fluctuations in our royalty revenue and operating results from quarter-to-quarter.  We recognize royalty revenue in the quarter in which we receive a royalty report from our licensee.  As a result, our recognition of royalty revenue typically lags behind the quarter in which the related integrated circuit is manufactured or sold by our licensee by at least one quarter. We cannot be certain that our business strategy will be successful in expanding the number of licensees, nor can we be certain that we will receive significant royalty revenue in the future.

 

We expect our revenue to be highly concentrated among a small number of licensees and customers, and our results of operations could be harmed if we lose and fail to replace this revenue.

 

Our royalty revenue has been highly concentrated among a few licensees, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. In particular, a substantial portion of our licensing and royalty revenue in 2003, 2002 and 2001 has come from the licenses for integrated circuits used by Nintendo in its GAMECUBE®. Gamecube-related revenue represented 13%, 44% and 23% of total revenue in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.  Moreover, Nintendo faces intense competitive pressure in the video game market, which is characterized by extreme volatility, costly new product introductions and rapidly shifting consumer preferences. Nintendo has publicly announced that sales of Gamecube units to date have been significantly less than its expectations when it launched this video

 

15


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

game console.   We cannot assure you that Nintendo’s sales of product incorporating our technology will increase beyond prior or current levels.

 

Furthermore, our overall revenue has been highly concentrated, with a few customers accounting for a significant percentage of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2003, our three largest customers, SONY, NEC and UMC represented 17%, 14%, and 11% of total revenue, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2002, our two largest customers, NEC and UMC represented 38% and 12% of total revenue, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2001, our two largest customers, Cisco Systems and NEC represented 22% and 19% of total revenue, respectively. We expect that a relatively small number of licensees will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future.

 

As a result of this revenue concentration, our results of operations could be impaired by the decision of a single key licensee or customer to cease using our technology or products or by a decline in the number of products that incorporate our technology that are sold by a single licensee or customer or by a small group of licensees or customers.

 

Our revenue concentration may also pose credit risks, which could negatively affect our cash flow and financial condition.

 

We might also face credit risks associated with the concentration of our revenue among a small number of licensees and customers. As of December 31, 2003, five customers represented 72% of total trade receivables. As of December 31, 2002, three customers represented 85% of total trade receivables. Our failure to collect receivables from any customer that represents a large percentage of receivables on a timely basis, or at all, could adversely affect our cash flow or results of operations and might cause our stock price to fall.

 

Anything that negatively affects the businesses of our licensees could negatively impact our revenue.

 

The timing and level of our royalties depend on our licensees’ ability to market, produce and ship products incorporating our technology. Because we expect licensing and royalty revenue to be the largest source of our future revenue, anything that negatively affects a significant licensee or group of licensees could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Many issues beyond our control influence the success of our licensees, including, for example, the highly competitive environment in which they operate, the strength of the markets for their products, their engineering capabilities and their financial and other resources.

 

Likewise, we have no control over the product development, pricing and marketing strategies of our licensees, which directly affect sales of their products and the corresponding royalties payable to us. A decline in sales of our licensees’ royalty-generating products for any reason would reduce our royalty revenue. In addition, seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for our licensees’ products could cause our operating results to fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to fall.

 

Our embedded memory technology is new and the occurrence of manufacturing difficulties, or low production yields could hinder market acceptance of our technology and reduce future revenue.

 

Complex technology like ours may contain errors or defects when first incorporated into customer products. For example, semiconductor manufacturing yield could be adversely affected by difficulties in adapting our 1T-SRAM technologies to our licensees’ product design or to the manufacturing process technology of a particular foundry or semiconductor manufacturer. Any decrease in manufacturing yields of integrated circuits utilizing our technology could impede the acceptance of our technology in the industry. The discovery of defects or problems regarding the reliability, quality or compatibility of our technology could require significant expenditures and resources to fix, significantly delay or hinder market acceptance of our technology, reduce anticipated revenues and damage our reputation.

 

Our failure to continue to enhance our technology or develop new technology on a timely basis could diminish our ability to attract and retain licensees and product customers.

 

The existing and potential markets for memory products and technology are characterized by ever increasing performance requirements, evolving industry standards, rapid technological change and product obsolescence. These characteristics lead to frequent new product and technology introductions and enhancements, shorter product life cycles and changes in consumer demands. In order to attain and maintain a significant position in the market, we will need to continue to enhance our technology in anticipation of these market trends.

 

In addition, the semiconductor industry might adopt or develop a completely different approach to utilizing memory for many applications, which could render our existing technology unmarketable or obsolete. We might not be able to successfully develop new technology, or adapt our existing technology, to comply with these innovative standards.

 

Our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to—

 

•                                          identify target markets and relevant emerging technological trends, including new standards and protocols;

 

16


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

•                                          develop and maintain competitive technology by improving performance and adding innovative features that differentiate our technology from alternative technologies;

 

•                                          enable the incorporation of enhanced technology in our licensees’ and customers’ products on a timely basis and at competitive prices; and

 

•                                          respond effectively to new technological developments or new product introductions by others.

 

Since its introduction in 1998, we have introduced enhancements to our 1T-SRAM technology designed to meet market requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the design and introduction schedules of any additions and enhancements to our existing and future technology will be met, that this technology will achieve market acceptance or that we will be able to license this technology on terms that are favorable to us. Our failure to develop future technology that achieves market acceptance could harm our competitive position and impede our future growth.

 

Our quarterly revenues may fluctuate significantly and as a result we cannot provide assurance of our future profitability.

 

Our quarterly revenues have fluctuated in the past, and may in the future as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control.  These factors would include the following:

 

•                  the length of our sales cycle;

 

•                  deferred spending decisions by customers;

 

•                  the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the general economic environment;

 

•                  the timing and completion of milestones under license agreements; and

 

•                  changes in the demand for integrated circuits that incorporate our technology.

 

We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and these comparisons are not indicators of future performance.  We intend to continue our investment in research and development as well as in the marketing and licensing of our technology in an effort to maximize future results.  If revenue falls below our expectations in any quarter and we are not able to adjust spending in a timely manner, we may incur an operation loss.  As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.

 

We rely on semiconductor foundries to assist us in attracting potential licensees, and a loss or failure of these relationships could inhibit our growth and reduce our revenue.

 

Part of our marketing strategy relies upon our relationships and agreements with semiconductor foundries. These foundries have existing relationships, and continually seek new relationships, with companies in the markets we target, and have agreed to utilize these relationships to introduce our technology to potential licensees. If we fail to maintain our current relationships with these foundries, we might fail to achieve anticipated growth.

 

Royalty amounts owed to us might be difficult to verify, and we might find it difficult, expensive and time-consuming to enforce our license agreements.

 

The standard terms of our license agreements require our licensees to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate our technology and report this data to us after the end of each quarter. Though our standard license terms give us the right to audit the books and records of any licensee to attempt to verify the information provided to us in these reports, an audit of a licensee’s records can be expensive and time consuming, and potentially detrimental to the business relationship. A failure to fully enforce the royalty provisions of our license agreements could cause our revenue to decrease and impede our ability to maintain profitability.

 

We might not be able to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which could impair our ability to compete and reduce the value of our technology.

 

Our technology is complex and is intended for use in complicated integrated circuits. A very large number of new and existing products utilize embedded memory, and a large number of companies manufacture and market these products. Because of these factors, policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. We cannot be certain that we will be able

 

17


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

to detect unauthorized use of our technology or prevent other parties from designing and marketing unauthorized products based on our technology. Although we are not aware of any past or present infringement of our patents, copyrights or trademarks, or any violation of our trade secrets, confidentiality procedures or licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our inability to protect adequately our intellectual property would reduce significantly the barriers of entry for directly competing technologies and could reduce the value of our technology. Furthermore, we might initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation by us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us.

 

Our existing patents might not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property, and our patent applications might not result in the issuance of patents, either of which could reduce the value of our core technology and harm our business.

 

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2003, we held 64 patents in the United States, which expire at various times from 2011 to 2022, and 36 corresponding foreign patents. In addition, as of December 31, 2003, we had 15 patent applications pending in the United States and 26 pending foreign applications, and had received notice of allowance of five patent applications pending in the United States. We cannot be sure that any patents will issue from any of our pending applications or that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength, or issued in all countries where our products can be sold, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Also, competitors might be able to design around our patents. Failure of our patents or patent applications to provide meaningful protection might allow others to utilize our technology without any compensation to us and impair our ability to increase our licensing revenue.

 

Any claim that our products or technology infringe third-party intellectual property rights could increase our costs of operation and distract management and could result in expensive settlement costs or the discontinuance of our technology licensing or product offerings.

 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We are not aware of any currently pending intellectual property litigation or threatened claim against us. However, our licensees or we might, from time to time, receive notice of claims that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights owned by others. Litigation against us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation results in a determination adverse to us. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the licensing of certain technology or the sale of infringing products, and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such development or that such licenses would be available on reasonable terms, or at all.

 

The discovery of defects in our technology could expose us to liability for damages.

 

The discovery of a defect in our 1T-SRAM technology could lead our licensees to seek damages from us. Our standard license terms include provisions waiving implied warranties regarding our technology and limiting our liability to our licensees. We also maintain insurance coverage that is intended to protect us against potential liability for defects in our technology. We cannot be certain, however, that the waivers or limitations of liability contained in our license contracts will be enforceable, that insurance coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims or that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims that exceed available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could cause our expenses to rise significantly and consequently harm our profitability.

 

Our failure to compete effectively in the market for embedded memory technology could reduce our revenue.

 

There exists significant competition in the market for embedded memory technologies. Our licensees and prospective licensees can meet their need for embedded memory by using traditional memory solutions with different cost and performance parameters, which they may internally develop or acquire from third party vendors. If alternative technologies are developed that provide comparable system performance at lower cost than our 1T-SRAM technologies or do not require the payment of comparable royalties, or if the industry generally demonstrates a preference for applications for which our 1T-SRAM technologies do not offer significant advantages, our ability to realize revenue from our 1T-SRAM technologies could be impaired.

 

We might be challenged by competitive developers of alternative technologies who are more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have substantially greater financial, development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. These advantages might permit these developers to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in licensee requirements. We cannot assure you that future competition will not have a material adverse effect on the adoption of our technology and our market penetration.

 

18


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Our failure to manage the growth of our business could reduce our potential revenue and threaten our future profitability.

 

The size of our company has increased substantially over the past three years, as we grew from 43 employees in January 2001 to 92 employees in December 2003. The efficient management of our planned expansion of the development, licensing and marketing of our technology, including through the acquisition of other companies will require us to continue to—

 

•                                          implement and manage new marketing channels to penetrate different and broader markets for our 1T-SRAM technologies;

 

•                                          manage an increasing number of complex relationships with licensees and co-marketers and their customers and other third parties;

 

•                                          improve our operating systems, procedures and financial controls on a timely basis;

 

•                                          hire additional key management and technical personnel; and

 

•                                          expand, train and manage our workforce and, in particular, our development, sales, marketing and support organizations.

 

We cannot assure you that we will adequately manage our growth or meet the foregoing objectives. A failure to do so could jeopardize our future revenues and cause our stock price to fall.

 

Any acquisitions we make, such as our acquisition of ATMOS Corporation, could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.

 

As part of our growth strategy, we might consider opportunities to acquire other businesses or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. ATMOS Corporation is our only acquisition to date. Acquisitions present a number of potential challenges that could, if not overcome, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value to us of the acquired company, including—

 

•                                          integration of the acquired employees, operations, technologies and products with our existing business and products;

 

•                                          focusing management’s time and attention on our core business;

 

•                                          retention of business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company;

 

•                                          entering markets in which we lack prior experience;

 

•                                          retention of key employees of the acquired company; and

 

•                                          amortization of intangible assets, write-offs, stock-based compensation and other charges relating to the acquired business and our acquisition costs.

 

If we fail to retain key personnel, our business and growth could be negatively affected.

 

Our business has been dependent to a significant degree upon the services of a small number of executive officers and technical employees, including Dr. Fu-Chieh Hsu, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Wingyu Leung, our Executive Vice President and Chief Technical Officer. The loss of their services could negatively impact our technology development efforts and our ability to perform our existing agreements and obtain new customers. We generally have not entered into employment or non-competition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key-man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel.

 

Our failure to successfully address the potential difficulties associated with our international operations could increase our costs of operation and negatively impact our revenue.

 

We are subject to many difficulties posed by doing business internationally, including—

 

•                                          foreign currency exchange fluctuations;

 

•                                          unanticipated changes in local regulation;

 

19


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

•                                          potentially adverse tax consequences, such as withholding taxes;

 

•                                          difficulties regarding timing and availability of export and import licenses;

 

•                                          political and economic instability; and

 

•                                          reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property.

 

Because we anticipate that licenses to companies that operate primarily outside the United States will account for a substantial portion of our licensing revenue in future periods, the occurrence of any of these circumstances could significantly increase our costs of operation, delay the timing of our revenue and harm our profitability.

 

Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock.

 

Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings and establish specific procedures for director nominations by stockholders and the submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings.

 

We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law which could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless specific conditions are met. Any of these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock.

 

Our board of directors may issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as the board might determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and might be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that might be issued in the future.

 

Our stockholder rights plan could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price for their shares from a potential acquiror.

 

We have adopted a stockholder rights plan, which entitles our stockholders to rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock generally when a third party acquires 15% of our common stock or commences or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15% of our common stock. This plan could delay, deter or prevent an investor from acquiring us in a transaction that could otherwise result in stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock.

 

A limited number of stockholders have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval.

 

Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates or non-affiliate related entities, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 29% of our common stock. These stockholders acting together have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed acquisition, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, they could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding an acquisition, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which might otherwise involve the payment of a premium for your shares of our common stock.

 

Potential volatility of the price of our common stock could negatively affect your investment.

 

We cannot assure you that there will continue to be an active trading market for our common stock. Recently, the stock market, as well as our common stock, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Market prices of securities of technology companies have been highly volatile and frequently reach levels that bear no relationship to the operating performance of such companies. These market prices generally are not sustainable and are subject to wide variations. If our common stock trades to unsustainably high levels, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will thereafter experience a material decline.

 

In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, harm our reputation in the industry and the securities markets and

 

20


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

reduce our profitability.

 

The price of our stock could decrease as a result of shares being sold in the market by directors, officers and other significant stockholders.

Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of the common stock prevailing from time to time. The number of shares of our common stock available for sale in the public market is limited by restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, but taking into account sales of stock made in accordance with the provisions of Rules 144(k), 144 and 701, substantially all the shares of common stock currently outstanding are eligible for sale in the public market.

 

Risks Relating to the Offer and the Merger
 

If the offer and merger are not completed our stock price may decline, we will have incurred significant costs, we may be liable for termination and other fees and our business may be harmed.

 

If the offer and merger are not completed, we may be subject to a number of substantial risks, including the following:

 

•      The price of our common stock may decline, including to the extent the current price of our common stock reflects the price of the offer;

 

•      We may be required to pay Synopsys a termination fee of $10 million if the reorganization agreement is terminated under certain circumstances; 

 

•      We will be required to pay significant costs related to the offer and the merger, including legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, although we are entitled to reimbursement of up to $750,000 for fees and expenses incurred in connection with the offer and merger upon termination of the reorganization agreement under certain circumstances; and

 

•      Our reputation and relationships with our customers, suppliers, distributors, licensors and employees may be harmed.

 

Our business and prospects may have been adversely impacted by the offer and merger.

 

                The negotiation and announcement of the offer and merger, and the uncertainty regarding our business pending the completion of the offer and merger, may have a number of negative affects on our business, including the following:

 

•      Our management will have been diverted from day-to-day business operations, possibly leading to a loss of revenues and market position;

 

•      Our current and potential customers may have delayed or cancelled purchasing decisions in response to the offer and merger, resulting in a material decline in our revenues;

 

•      Our business partners, including suppliers, distributors and licensors, may have adversely changed or terminated their relationships with us in response to the offer and the merger; and

 

•      Our employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with us, harming our ability to attract and retain key management, sales and technical personnel.

 

21


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

 

 

The offer and merger may be delayed, modified or terminated because of potential antitrust review by governmental authorities.

 

                Governmental authorities could delay the completion of the offer and merger by requesting extensive information regarding its impact on competition. By alleging that the offer and merger are anti-competitive, they could seek to prevent the offer and merger, modify the terms of the offer and merger, or impose restrictive operating, divestiture or other conditions on the combined company. We believe that the completion of the offer and the merger will not violate any antitrust laws, however, any of these outcomes could cause harm to us and Synopsys, substantial delay in completing the offer and merger, if it is completed at all, and harm to the combined company if the offer and merger is nevertheless completed.

 

The offer and merger may not be completed.

 

The completion of the offer and the merger are subject to certain conditions pursuant to the reorganization agreement which may not be satisfied or waived.

 

Synopsys’ obligation to accept shares in the offer are subject to certain conditions.  If the conditions to the completion of the offer are not satisfied, Synopsys may terminate the offer and the transaction will not close.  The conditions to the completion of the offer by Synopsys include the following:

 

•      that an amount of shares have been tendered that represents more than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (taking into account shares owned by Synopsys and its subsidiaries and outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock);

 

•      that Fu-Chieh Hsu and Wing-Yu Leung continue to be employed by us; and

 

•      that no more than 25% of the engineers employed by us who have received offers of at-will employment from Synopsys will cease to be employed by us.

 

The closing of the merger is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the following:

 

•      that, if such a vote is required, the reorganization agreement has been duly adopted by the required vote of our stockholders;

 

•      that no temporary restraining order, injunction or other order preventing consummation of the merger has been issued and remains in effect and there are no other applicable legal restrictions that would make the merger illegal;

 

•      that the registration statement filed by Synopsys shall have been declared effective by the SEC;

 

•      that the shares of Synopsys common stock to be issued in the offer (if the all-cash election is not made) have been approved for listing with The Nasdaq National Market; and

 

•      that Synopsys has accepted all validly tendered shares in the offer.

 

If the reorganization agreement is terminated, the offer and the merger will not be completed.  The reorganization agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances, including the following:

 

•      by the mutual consent of us and Synopsys;

 

•      by us or Synopsys if a court or governmental body issues an order permanently enjoining or making illegal the merger;

 

•      by us or Synopsys if the offer expires without Synopsys accepting any shares of our common stock or if the offer has not been accepted by July 31, 2004;

 

•      by Synopsys if our board retracts its recommendation of the offer and the merger;

 

•      by us to accept an unsolicited, bona fide written offer by a third party to purchase all of the outstanding shares of our common stock after our board concludes that such offer is more favorable to our stockholders than the offer and the merger;

 

•      by Synopsys if our representations and warranties are materially inaccurate resulting in a material adverse effect on us or if our covenants are materially breached and not cured and after paying us a termination fee of $10 million;

 

•      by us if Synopys’ representations and warranties are materially inaccurate or if its covenants are materially breached resulting in a material adverse effect on Synopsys’ ability to complete the merger and such breach has not been cured; and

 

•      by Synopsys if a material adverse effect with respect to us has occurred or is reasonably likely to occur and after paying us a termination fee of $10 million.

 

Synopsys may not realize the benefits it expects from the offer and merger if the integration is not successful, and the stock price of any shares of common stock of Synopsys that you receive in the offer may decline accordingly.

 

Synopsys may not realize the benefits it expects from the offer and merger if Synopsys' operations and our operations are not successfully integrated. Among other integration challenges, the combined company must effectively do the following:

 

•      Integrate our technology and products into Synopsys' portfolio of intellectual property for system-on-chips and EDA design flow;

 

•      Integrate our revenue model within Synopsys' revenue model;

 

•      Coordinate Synopsys' and our sales forces, build sales momentum, and minimize the disruption to our business and revenues caused by the offer and merger;

 

•      Communicate the capabilities of the combined company and cross-sell related products to Synopsys' and our customers;

 

•      Recruit and retain key personel, including Dr. Fu-Chieh Hsu and Dr. Wing-Yu Leung;

 

•      Incorporate our technical knowledge into Synopsys' engineering organization;

 

•      Maintain and build key alliances on attractive terms with partners and suppliers;

 

•      Create and effectively implement uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems;

 

•      Manage intense demands for management time and attention caused by the integration efforts; and

 

•      Manage unanticipated expenses, liabilities and delays.

 

                Any failure to integrate Synopsys' operations and our operations successfully could have a material adverse effect on the business, prospects and results of operations of the combined company.
