Item 1.    Business 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Microsemi Corporation (the “Company” or “Microsemi”) was incorporated in Delaware in 1960. Its name was changed from Microsemiconductor Corporation in February 1983. The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 2381 Morse Ave., Irvine, California 92614 and its telephone number is (949) 221-7100. Unless the context otherwise requires, the “Company” and “Microsemi” refer to Microsemi Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
 
Microsemi is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits and power and signal discrete semiconductors. The Company’s semiconductors manage and regulate power, protect against transient voltage spikes and transmit, receive and amplify signals. 
 
Microsemi’s products include individual components as well as complete circuit solutions that enhance customer designs by providing battery optimization, reducing size or protecting circuits. Markets the Company serves include mobile connectivity, automotive, digital media, computer/peripherals, telecommunications, medical, industrial/commercial, aerospace/satellite and military. 
 
The Company operates primarily in a single industry segment as a manufacturer of semiconductors, and the Company’s reportable operating segments are based on geographic location. Please see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for information on revenues, operating results and total assets of each geographic segment of the Company’s business. 
 
Please read the information under the heading “IMPORTANT FACTORS RELATED TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS” below, which describes and refers to some of the important risks and uncertainties. 
 
IMPORTANT FACTORS RELATED TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS 
 
This Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. All of the non-historical information herein is forward-looking. The forward-looking statements included herein and elsewhere in this filing are based on, among other items, current assumptions that the Company will be able to meet its current operating cash and debt service requirements with internally generated funds and its available line of credit, that it will be able to successfully resolve disputes and other business matters as anticipated, that competitive conditions within the semiconductor, integrated circuit and custom diode assembly industries will not change materially or adversely, that the Company will retain existing key personnel, that the Company’s forecasts will reasonably anticipate market demand for its products, and that there will be no materially adverse change in or affecting the Company’s operations or business. Related or other factors that could cause results to vary materially from current expectations are discussed below in this Part 1, Item 1 or elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including Part I, Item 3; and Part II, Items 5, 7 and 8. Assumptions relating to forward-looking statements involve judgments about matters that are difficult to predict accurately and are subject to many factors that can materially affect results. Forecasting and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause the Company to alter its forecasts, which may in turn affect the Company’s results. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements made herein, and shall do so only as and when the Company determines to do so. In light of the factors that can materially affect the forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the objectives or plans of the Company will be achieved. Readers are cautioned against giving undue weight to forward-looking statements and are asked to consider all of the factors referred to herein, in subsequent filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission or elsewhere. 
 

2 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Certain effects of the tragic events of terrorism on September 11, 2001 have adversely impacted the demand for certain products of Microsemi. 
 
The volume of Microsemi’s products sold for commercial aircraft manufacturing declined after September 11, 2001 as a result of a lessened demand for air travel. This market has not recovered. Also, the Company believes that many of the usual purchasers of industrial products and telecommunications equipment have been deferring or cancelling their capital expenditures due to economic uncertainty. Many military programs have been awarded to prime contractors, but are not yet fully funded. Missile, missile defense, weapons systems, smart bomb and radar programs may have been impacted by the higher priority established for homeland security. The Joint Strike Fighter program at Lockheed, Firefinder at Raytheon, JDAM at Boeing, and upgrades to the F15 and F22 aircraft all await this funding. Microsemi’s high-reliability components are used in all these programs. Full funding is expected at least to begin within the next two quarters. Despite the fact that the Company expects demand for Microsemi’s products from military and weapons manufacturers to increase, the timing and quantity thereof are difficult to predict. 
 
Downturns in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry have adversely affected the operating results and the value of Microsemi’s business. 
 
The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and the value of Microsemi’s business has declined during the “down” portion of these cycles. During recent years, the Company, as well as many others in its industry, experienced significant declines in the pricing of, as well as demand for, products. The market for semiconductors has experienced severe and prolonged downturns. In the future, these downturns may prove to be as, or possibly more, severe. The markets for Microsemi’s products depend on continued demand in the mobile connectivity, automotive, digital media, telecommunications, computers/peripherals, military and aerospace, space/satellite, industrial/commercial and medical markets, and these end-markets have experienced changes in demand that have adversely affected Microsemi’s operating results and financial condition. For instance, presently the commercial satellite market remains in a prolonged downturn, commercial aerospace entered a sharp downturn as a result of events near the beginning of this fiscal year, and telecommunications is impacted by industry-wide overcapacity and several notable financial crises. 
 
The semiconductor business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce the value of Microsemi. 
 
The semiconductor industry, including the areas in which the Company does business, is highly competitive. The Company expects intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants. Competition is based on price, product performance, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. Pricing pressures may emerge. For instance, competitors may attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices. The market for commercial products is characterized by declining selling prices. The Company anticipates that its average selling prices will decrease in future periods, although the timing and amount of these decreases cannot be predicted with any certainty. The pricing pressure in the semiconductor industry in recent years has been due primarily to the Asian currency crisis, industry-wide excess manufacturing capacity, weak economic growth outside the United States, the slowdown in capital spending that followed the “dot-com” collapse, the reduction in capital spending by telecom companies and satellite companies, and certain effects of the tragic events of terrorism on September 11, 2001. The Company competes in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than the Company has, and thus may be better able to pursue acquisition candidates and to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with Microsemi may introduce competing products in the future. The Company has numerous competitors. Some of Microsemi’s current major competitors are Motorola, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., Philips Electronics, ON Semiconductor, L.L.C., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, Micrel Incorporated, International Rectifier Corporation, Semtech Corporation, Linear Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Diodes, Inc., Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and its subsidiary Siliconix Incorporated. Some of Microsemi’s competitors in 

3 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

developing markets are Triquint Semiconductor, Inc., Mitel Corporation, RF Micro Devices, Inc., Conexant Systems, Inc., Anadigics, Inc. and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. The Company may not be able to compete successfully in the future or competitive pressures may harm Microsemi’s financial condition, operating results or cash flows. 
 
New technologies could result in the development of competing products and a decrease in demand for Microsemi’s products. 
 
The Company’s financial performance depends on its ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Microsemi’s failure to develop new technologies or to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay its development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenues and/or a loss of its market share to competitors. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize much of the semiconductor industry. A fundamental shift in technologies in Microsemi’s product markets could have a material adverse effect on its competitive position within the industry. 
 
For instance, presently Microsemi is challenged to develop new products for use with various alternative wireless LAN standards, such as 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g and combinations thereof. Although this development has already resulted in design wins related to 802.11a, the solutions related to the other standards and the combination of all of the standards are still in development. The success of products using various standards is subject to rapid changes in market preferences and advancements in competing technologies. 
 
Failure to protect Microsemi’s proprietary technologies or maintain the right to use certain technologies may negatively affect its ability to compete. 
 
The Company relies heavily on its proprietary technologies. Microsemi’s future success and competitive position may depend in part upon Microsemi’s ability to obtain or maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in Microsemi’s principal products. The Company does not have significant patent protection on many aspect of its technology. Microsemi’s reliance upon protection of some of its technology as “trade secrets” will not necessarily protect Microsemi from the use by other persons of its technology, or their use of technology that is similar or superior to that which is embodied in Microsemi’s trade secrets. Others may be able to independently duplicate or exceed Microsemi’s technology in whole or in part. The Company may not be successful in maintaining the confidentiality of Microsemi’s technology, dissemination of which could have a material adverse effect on its business. In addition, litigation may be necessary to determine the scope and validity of Microsemi’s proprietary rights. In instances in which the Company holds any patents or patent licenses, any patents held by Microsemi may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under any patents may not provide Microsemi with competitive advantages. Patents often provide only narrow protection and require public disclosure of information that may otherwise be subject to trade secret protection. Also patents expire and are not renewable. Obtaining or protecting Microsemi’s proprietary rights may require the Company to defend claims of intellectual property infringement by its competitors. While the Company is not currently engaged as a defendant in intellectual property litigation that the Company believes will have a material adverse effect, the Company could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that the Company has infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others. 
 
If any such infringements exist, arise or are claimed in the future, the Company may be exposed to substantial liability for damages and may need to obtain licenses from the patent owners, discontinue or change Microsemi’s processes or products or expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies. The Company may not be successful in such efforts or such licenses may not be available under reasonable terms. Microsemi’s failure to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms or the occurrence of related litigation itself could have a material adverse effect on Microsemi’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 

4 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Future business could be adversely affected by delays in production of compound semiconductor technology. 
 
The Company utilizes process technology to manufacture compound semiconductors such as gallium arsenide (GaAs), indium gallium phosphide (InGaP), silicon germanium (SiGe), and indium gallium arsenide phosphide (InGaAsP) primarily to manufacture semiconductor components. The Company is pursuing this development effort internally as well as with third party foundries. Microsemi’s efforts sometimes may not result in commercially successful products. Certain of Microsemi’s competitors offer this capability and Microsemi’s customers may purchase their requirements for these products from Microsemi’s competitors. The third party foundries that the Company uses may delay or fail to deliver to Microsemi’s technology and products. Microsemi’s business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by delay or Microsemi failure to produce these products. 
 
Compound semiconductor products may not successfully compete with silicon-based products. 
 
Microsemi’s choices of technologies for development and future implementation may not reflect future market demand. The production of GaAs, InGaP, SiGe, InGaAsP or SiC integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits, and the Company believes it will continue in the future to be more costly. The costs differ because of higher costs of raw materials, lower production yields and higher unit costs associated with lower production volumes. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies for integrated circuits, and these technologies continue to improve in performance. As a result, the Company must offer compound semiconductor products that provide vastly superior performance to that of silicon for specific applications in order for them to be competitive with silicon products. If the Company does not offer compound semiconductor products that provide sufficiently superior performance to offset the cost differential and otherwise successfully compete with silicon-based products, Microsemi’s operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, other alternatives exist and are being developed, and may have superior performance or lower cost. 
 
The Company may not be able to develop new products to satisfy changes in demand. 
 
The Company may be unsuccessful in its efforts to identify new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Products or technologies developed by others may render Microsemi’s products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. In addition, to remain competitive, the Company must continue to reduce package sizes, improve manufacturing yields and expand sales. The Company may not be able to accomplish these goals. For instance the Company has developed and introduced approximately 40 new products in fiscal year 2002. Designs the Company has introduced recently include primarily integrated circuits and subsystems such as class D audio subsystems for newly-introduced home theatre DVD players supporting 5.1 surround sound, PDA backlighting subsystems, backlight control and power management solutions for the automotive market, LED driver solutions and power amplifiers for certain wireless LAN components. Their success will be subject to all of the risks and uncertainties mentioned in this Form 10-K. 
 
The Company must commit resources to production prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment. 
 
The Company sells products primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Many of these purchase orders may be revised or cancelled without penalty. As a result, the Company must commit resources to the production of products without any advance purchase commitments from customers. Microsemi’s inability to sell products after the Company devotes significant resources to them could have a material adverse effect on Microsemi’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

5 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Variability of the Company’s manufacturing yields may affect its gross margins. 
 
Microsemi’s manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular integrated circuit’s design and Microsemi’s experience in manufacturing that type of integrated circuit. The Company has in the past experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields, which have adversely affected Microsemi’s gross margins. The fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous integrated circuits on each wafer to be non-functional, thereby reducing yields. These difficulties include: 
 
  •   Defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns onto wafers;  

 
  •   Impurities in the materials used;  

 
  •   Contamination of the manufacturing environment; and  

 
  •   Equipment failure.  

 
Because a large portion of Microsemi’s costs of manufacturing is relatively fixed, and average selling prices for Microsemi’s products tend to decline over time, it is critical for the Company to improve the number of shippable integrated circuits per wafer and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain and improve Microsemi’s results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect Microsemi’s operating results and have done so in the past. Moreover, Microsemi’s process technology has primarily used standard silicon semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and production yields of compound integrated circuits have been relatively low compared with silicon integrated circuit devices. The Company may be unable to continue to improve yields in the future, and the Company may suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies. In either case, Microsemi’s results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
 
Inventories of Microsemi may become obsolete. 
 
The life cycles of some of Microsemi’s products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which Microsemi’s products are designed. Products with short life cycles require Microsemi to manage closely Microsemi’s production and inventory levels. The Company estimates that current life cycles for most of Microsemi’s products are approximately 12 to 24 months. Inventory may also become obsolete because of adverse changes in end-market demand. The Company may in the future be adversely affected by obsolete or excess inventories which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for Microsemi’s products or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which Microsemi’s products are designed. 
 
International operations and sales expose Microsemi to material risks. 
 
Revenues from foreign markets represent a significant portion of total revenues. The Company maintains facilities or contracts with entities in Thailand, the Philippines, Taiwan, Ireland, and China. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: 
 
  •   Changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the United States and in the countries in which the Company manufacture or sell products;  

 
  •   Trade restrictions;  

 
  •   Transportation delays;  

 
  •   Work stoppages;  

 
  •   Economic and political instability;  

 
  •   Terrorist activities;  

 
  •   Changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates;  

 
  •   Difficulties in collecting receivables and enforcing contracts generally; and  

 
  •   Currency exchange rate fluctuations.  


6 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect Microsemi’s products, assets or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. Therefore, the risk of piracy of Microsemi’s technology and products may be greater in those foreign countries. Although the Company has not experienced any material adverse effect on Microsemi’s operating results as a result of these and other factors, the Company may experience a material adverse effect on Microsemi’s financial condition, operating results and cash flows in the future. 
 
Delays in beginning production at new facilities, implementing new production techniques or resolving problems associated with technical equipment malfunctions could adversely affect Microsemi’s manufacturing efficiencies. 
 
The Company’s manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in Microsemi’s future profitability, and the Company may be unsuccessful in its efforts to maintain or increase Microsemi’s manufacturing efficiency. Microsemi’s manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continually being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. The Company has from time to time experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes. As a consequence, the Company has experienced delays in product deliveries and reduced yields. The Company may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing Microsemi’s process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Microsemi’s operating results also could be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity if revenues do not increase proportionately. 
 
Interruptions, delays or cost increases affecting Microsemi’s materials, parts, equipment or subcontractors may impair the Company’s competitive position. 
 
Microsemi’s manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment, including silicon, mold compounds and lead frames, on a timely basis from third parties. Microsemi’s results of operations could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to obtain adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment in a timely manner or if the costs of materials, parts or equipment increase significantly. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although the Company generally uses materials, parts and equipment available from multiple suppliers, the Company has a limited number of suppliers for some materials, parts and equipment. While the Company believes that alternate suppliers for these materials, parts and equipment are available, an interruption could materially impair Microsemi’s operations. 
 
Some of Microsemi’s products are assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors. The Company generally does not have any long-term agreements with these subcontractors. As a result, the Company may not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality. Due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, the Company could experience delays in the shipment of its products if the Company was forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test its products. Any product delivery delays in the future could have a material adverse effect on Microsemi’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Microsemi’s operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if Microsemi’s relationships with these subcontractors were disrupted or terminated. 
 
The Company depends on third party subcontractors in Asia for assembly and packaging of a portion of its products. The packaging of Microsemi’s products is performed by a limited group of subcontractors and some of the raw materials included in Microsemi’s products are obtained from a limited group of suppliers. Although the Company seeks to reduce its dependence on sole or limited source suppliers, disruption or termination of any of these sources could occur and such disruptions or terminations could harm Microsemi’s business and operating results. In the event that any of Microsemi’s subcontractors were to experience financial, operational, production or quality assurance difficulties resulting in a reduction or interruption in supply to Microsemi, its operating results could suffer until alternate subcontractors, if any, were to become available. 

7 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
The Company anticipates that many of its next-generation products may be manufactured by third party subcontractors in Asia, and to the extent that such potential manufacturing relationships develop, they may be with a limited group of manufacturers. Therefore, any disruptions or terminations of manufacturing could harm Microsemi’s business and operating results. 
 
Fixed costs may reduce operating results if Microsemi’s sales fall below expectations. 
 
Microsemi’s expense levels are based, in part, on its expectations as to future sales. Many of Microsemi’s expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are relatively fixed. Decreases in lead times between orders and shipments and customers’ ordering practices could adversely affect Microsemi’s ability to project future sales. The Company might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could materially and adversely affect Microsemi’s operating results. 
 
Reliance on government contracts for a portion of Microsemi’s sales could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. 
 
Some of Microsemi’s sales are derived from customers whose principal sales are to the United States Government. If the Company experiences significant reductions or delays in procurements of its products by the United States Government or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, Microsemi’s operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Generally, the United States Government and its contractors and subcontractors may terminate their contracts with Microsemi for cause or for convenience. The Company has in the past experienced terminations of government contracts. Certain contracts are also subject to price renegotiation in accordance with U.S. Government procurement provisions. The Company cannot guarantee that it will not experience terminations or price renegotiations of government contracts in the future. A significant portion of Microsemi’s sales are to military and aerospace markets, which are subject to the uncertainties of governmental appropriations and national defense policies and priorities. These sales are derived from direct and indirect business with the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, and other U.S. government agencies. The Company has experienced declining defense-related sales, primarily as a result of contract award delays and reduced military program funding. Military-related business is and has been anticipated to increase; however, the actual timing and amount of an increase has been occurring at a rate that has been slower than expected. The effects of defense spending increases are difficult to estimate and subject to many sources of delay. Microsemi’s prospects for additional defense-related sales may be adversely affected in a material manner by numerous events or actions outside its control. 
 
There may be unanticipated costs associated with increasing Microsemi’s capacity. 
 
The Company anticipates that future growth of its business could require increased manufacturing capacity. Expansion activities are subject to a number of risks, including: 
 
  •   Unavailability or late delivery of the advanced, and often customized, equipment used in the production of Microsemi’s products;  

 
  •   Delays in bringing new production equipment on-line;  

 
  •   Delays in supplying products to Microsemi’s existing customers; and  

 
  •   Unforeseen environmental or engineering problems relating to existing or new facilities.  

 
These and other risks may affect the ultimate cost and timing of Microsemi’s present or future expansion of its capacity. 

8 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
The Company may fail to attract or retain the qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel required to operate its business successfully. 
 
Microsemi’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. Personnel with the necessary expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with proper skills is intense. Also, attrition in personnel can result from, among other things, changes related to acquisitions, as well as retirement or disability. The Company may not be able to retain existing key technical, sales, marketing and managerial employees or be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel in the future. If the Company is unable to retain existing key employees or is unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, business, financial condition and results of operations of Microsemi could be materially and adversely affected. 
 
Failure to manage consolidation of operations effectively could adversely affect Microsemi’s ability to increase revenues and improve earnings. 
 
The Company’s ability to successfully offer its products in the semiconductor market requires effective planning and management processes. Microsemi’s Capacity Optimization and Profit Enhancement Program, with consolidations and realignments of operations, and expected future growth, may place a significant strain on its management systems and resources, including financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. In addition, the Company will need to continue to train and manage its workforce worldwide. 
 
The Company may engage in future acquisitions that dilute the ownership interests of Microsemi’s stockholders and cause the Company to incur debt or to assume contingent liabilities. 
 
As part of Microsemi’s business strategy, the Company expects to review acquisition prospects that would complement its current product offerings, enhance its design capability or offer other growth opportunities. While the Company has no current agreements and no active negotiations underway with respect to any acquisitions, the Company may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. In the event of future acquisitions, the Company could: 
 
  •   Use a significant portion of its available cash;  

 
  •   Issue equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership;  

 
  •   Incur substantial debt;  

 
  •   Incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown;  

 
  •   Incur impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangibles; and  

 
  •   Incur large, immediate accounting write-offs.  

 
Such actions by Microsemi could impact its operating results and/or the price of its common stock. 
 
The Company has acquired and may acquire other companies and may be unable successfully to integrate such companies with existing operations. 
 
The Company has in the past acquired a number of businesses or companies, and additional product lines and assets. The Company may continue to expand and diversify its operations with additional acquisitions. If the Company is unsuccessful in integrating these companies or product lines with existing operations, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, the Company may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the risks that may affect Microsemi’s ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from the acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with: 
 
  •   Unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company;  

 
  •   Conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with Microsemi’s operations;  


9 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
  •   Coordinating new product and process development;  

 
  •   Hiring additional management and other critical personnel;  

 
  •   Increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of Microsemi’s operations;  

 
  •   Difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how;  

 
  •   Other difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products;  

 
  •   Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and  

 
  •   Adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers.  

 
The Company has sold or disposed of certain subsidiaries or divisions which reduced volume that may not be replaceable in the ordinary course. 
 
Since the beginning of fiscal year 2001, the Company closed Microsemi PPC Inc. and ceased the operations at Microsemi (H.K.) Ltd. (Hong Kong). The Company also sold the business of Microsemi RF Products, Inc. in fiscal year 2002, which management believes would have contributed revenues of approximately $9.0 million to $11.0 million per year to Microsemi’s consolidated revenues. The Company also sold its Carlsbad, California design center in September 2002 and its equity interest in Semcon Electronics Private Limited of Mumbai, India in October 2002. The Company currently anticipates closure or sale of additional facilities, resulting in loss of revenues and net income. The Company may be unsuccessful in its efforts to replace the revenues and income of those discontinued operations. While the Company hopes to increase its manufacturing capacity utilization rates at remaining operations, the remaining operations also will bear the corporate administrative and overhead costs which had been allocated to the discontinued business units. 
 
The Company’s products may be found to be defective and the Company may not have sufficient liability insurance. 
 
One or more of Microsemi’s products may be found to be defective after the Company has already shipped the products in volume, requiring a product replacement or recall. The Company may also be subject to product returns that could impose substantial costs and have a material and adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Microsemi’s aerospace (including aircraft), military, medical and satellite businesses in particular expose the Company to potential liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of high reliability electronic components for critical applications. 
 
The Company may be subject to product liability claims with respect to Microsemi’s products. Microsemi’s product liability insurance coverage may be insufficient to pay all such claims. Product liability insurance may become too costly for Microsemi or may become unavailable to Microsemi in the future. The Company may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance. 
 
Environmental liabilities could adversely impact Microsemi’s financial position. 
 
Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in semiconductor manufacturing processes. In addition, under some laws and regulations, the Company could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if its properties are contaminated or if it sends waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if the Company did not cause the contamination. Also, the Company may be subject to common law claims if the Company releases substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject Microsemi to serious liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. 

10 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
In the conduct of its manufacturing operations, the Company has handled and does handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, the Company operates or owns facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from or within or through property. These risks may give rise to claims. Where third parties are responsible for contamination, the third parties may not have funds, or make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed under environmental laws and regulations. 
 
In Broomfield, Colorado, the Company has an agreement with prior owners of Microsemi’s property concerning clean-up costs associated with TCE and other contaminants present in the soil and groundwater. The Company has agreed to pay 10% and they have agreed to pay 90% of these costs. They have also agreed to indemnify Microsemi from claims by third parties. The Company is not yet able to predict a possible range of the total additional costs that may be incurred in connection with this property. 
 
Some of Microsemi’s facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines. 
 
Microsemi’s headquarters and two of its major operating facilities, and certain other critical business operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. The Company presently does not have earthquake insurance. The Company could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. 
 
Delaware law and Microsemi’s charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of Microsemi that might otherwise result in Microsemi’s stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares. 
 
Provisions of Delaware law and Microsemi’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make more difficult the acquisition of Microsemi by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. These provisions include: 
 
  •   The Shareholder Rights Plan, which provides that an acquisition of 20% or more of the outstanding shares without Microsemi’s Board’s approval or ratification results in dilution to the acquiror;  

 
  •   Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a merger with a 15%-or-greater stockholder, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, until three years after that party became a 15%-or-greater stockholder; and  

 
  •   The authorization in the certificate of incorporation of undesignated preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval in a manner designed to prevent or discourage a takeover or in a way which may dilute an investment in the Common Stock.  

 
In connection with Microsemi’s charter, the Company has a Shareholder Rights Plan, and each share of Common Stock, par value $.20, entitles the holder to one redeemable and cancelable Right (not presently exercisable) to acquire a fractional share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, under the terms and conditions as set forth in a Shareholder Rights Agreement. The existence of the Rights may make more difficult or impracticable for hostile change of control of the Company, which therefore may affect the anticipated return on an investor’s investment in the Common Stock. 
 
The volatility of Microsemi’s stock price could affect the value of an investment in Microsemi’s stock and its future financial position. 
 
The market price of Microsemi’s stock has fluctuated widely. Between October 1, 2001 and December 6, 2002, the closing price of Microsemi’s common stock ranged between a low of $5.00 and a high of $38.97. The current market price of Microsemi’s common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and the Company may not be able to sustain or increase the value of Microsemi’s common stock. Declines in the market price of Microsemi’s stock could adversely affect Microsemi’s ability to retain personnel with higher-priced stock incentives, to acquire businesses or assets in exchange for stock and/or to conduct future financing activities with the sale of stock. 

11 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Microsemi may have increasing difficulty to attract and hold outside Board members. 
 
The directors and management of publicly traded corporations are increasingly concerned with the extent of their personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims, as well as governmental and creditor claims which may be made against them in connection with their positions with publicly-held companies. Outside directors are becoming increasingly concerned with the availability of directors and officer’s liability insurance to pay on a timely basis the costs incurred in defending shareholder claims. Directors and officers liability insurance has recently become much more expensive than it had been. It has become increasingly more difficult to attract and retain qualified outside directors to serve on Microsemi’s Board. 
 
Microsemi may not make the sales that are indicated by the order backlog and the backlog number may become less meaningful. 
 
Lead times for the release of purchase orders depend upon the scheduling practices of individual customers, and delivery times of new or non-standard products can be affected by scheduling factors and other manufacturing considerations. The rate of booking new orders can vary significantly from month to month. Customers frequently change their delivery schedules or cancel orders. For these various reasons, Microsemi’s order backlog may not be an indication of future sales. 
 
The percentage of Microsemi’s business represented by space/satellite and military products may decline. If this occurs the Company anticipates that backlog will become less meaningful. Microsemi’s space/satellite business is characterized by long lead times; however Microsemi’s other end markets tend to place orders with short lead times. Prospective investors should not place undue reliance on Microsemi’s backlog numbers or changes in backlog numbers. The Company determines backlog based on firm orders which are scheduled for delivery within 12 months. 
 
There may be some potential effects of system outages. 
 
Risks are presented by electrical or telecommunications outages, computer hacking or other general system failure. To try to manage Microsemi’s operations efficiently and effectively, the Company relies heavily on its internal information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties. Any of these are subject to failure. System-wide or local failures that affect Microsemi’s information processing could have material adverse effects on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, insurance coverage for the risks described above may be unavailable. 
 
There may be potential impairments that adversely affect Microsemi’s balance sheet and earnings. 
 
Companies recently have become subject to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, which changes the accounting for goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment-only approach. The Company accounted for its acquisitions in 2001 in accordance with this standard and will adopt this standard on a company-wide basis for all existing goodwill at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2003. At least annually, the Company is required to reassess whether there has been an impairment of goodwill, which would result in a charge to earnings and a reduction in goodwill on the Company’s balance sheet. 
 
PRODUCTS 
 
The Company’s integrated circuits (“IC”) products offer light, sound and power management for desktop and mobile computing platforms as well as other power control applications. Power management generally refers to a class of standard linear integrated circuits (“SLICs”) that perform voltage regulation and reference in most electronic systems. The definition of power management has broadened in recent years to encompass other devices and modules, often application specific standard products (“ASSPs”), which address particular aspects of power management, such as audio or display related ICs. This business is composed of both a core platform of traditional SLICs, such as low dropout regulators (“LDOs”) and pulse width modulators (“PWMs”), and 

12 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

differentiated ASSPs such as backlight inverters, audio amplification ICs and small computer standard interface (“SCSI”) terminators. The Company’s integrated circuit products are used in computers, data storage, lighting, automobiles, telecommunications, test instruments, defense and aerospace equipment, high-quality sound reproduction and data transfer equipment. 
 
Major discrete products of the Company are silicon rectifiers, zener diodes, low leakage and high voltage diodes, temperature compensated zener diodes, transistors and a family of subminiature high power transient suppressor diodes. The Company also manufactures discrete semiconductors for commercial applications, such as automatic surge protectors, transient suppressor diodes used for telephone applications and computer switching diodes used in computer systems. A partial list of applications of the Company’s discrete semiconductor products includes: heart pacer transient shock protector diodes (where the Company believes it is the leading supplier in that market), low leakage diodes, transistors used in jet aircraft engines and high performance test equipment, high temperature diodes used in oil drilling sensing elements operating at 200 degrees centigrade, temperature compensated zener or rectifier diodes used in missile systems and power transistors. 
 
The Company currently serves a broad group of customers including Boeing, Compaq, Dell, Lockheed Martin, Guidant/Cardiac Pace Makers, Seagate Technology, Zenitron Corporation, Raytheon Systems, BAE Systems, and Medtronics. 
 
MARKETING 
 
The Company serves the satellite, telecommunications, computer and peripherals, digital media, automotive, military/aerospace, industrial/commercial, and medical markets with high-reliability and commercial analog integrated circuits and power and signal discrete semiconductors. 
 
The Company’s products are marketed through domestic electronic component sales representatives and the Company’s inside sales force to original equipment manufacturers. The Company also employs industrial distributors to service its customers’ needs for standard catalog products. For fiscal year 2002, the Company’s domestic sales accounted for approximately 72% of the Company’s revenues, of which sales representatives and distributors accounted for approximately 18% and 26%, respectively. The Company has direct sales offices in metropolitan areas including Los Angeles, Garden Grove, Santa Ana, Phoenix, Denver, Chicago, Florida, Minneapolis, Boston, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Ireland. Sales to foreign customers, made through the Company’s direct domestic sales force and 26 overseas sales representatives and distributors, accounted for approximately 28% of fiscal year 2002 sales. Domestic and foreign sales are classified based upon the destination of shipment from the Company’s facilities. 
 
No one customer accounted for more than 4% of the Company’s revenue in fiscal year 2002. However, approximately 28% of the Company’s business is to customers whose principal sales are to the U.S. Government. 
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
The Company believes that continuing timely development and introduction of new products are essential in maintaining its competitive position. The Company currently conducts most of its product development effort in-house. The Company also employs outside consultants to assist with product design. 
 
The Company spent approximately $11,196,000, $16,122,000, and $23,651,000 in fiscal years 2000, 2001, and 2002, respectively, for research and development, none of which was customer sponsored. 
 
The principal focus of the Company’s research and development activities has been to improve processes and to develop new products that support the growth of its businesses. 

13 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
The Company owns numerous United States and non-U.S. patents and has patent applications pending concerning certain aspects of its technology. The Company believes that development of patents and the maintenance of patents are advantageous to the conduct of its business. 
 
MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLIERS 
 
The Company’s principal domestic manufacturing operations are located in Santa Ana and Garden Grove, California; Broomfield, Colorado; Scottsdale, Arizona and Watertown, Lawrence and Lowell, Massachusetts. Each operates its own wafer processing, assembly, testing and screening departments. 
 
The Company’s domestic plants manufacture and process all products and assemblies starting from purchased silicon wafers and piece parts. After wafer level testing, the silicon wafers are separated into individual dice that are then assembled into packages and tested in accordance with the Company’s test procedures. Certain subcontract suppliers provide packaging and testing for the Company’s products necessary to deliver finished products. The Company pays those suppliers for assembled or fully tested products meeting predetermined specifications. Manufacturing and processing operations are controlled in accordance with military as well as other rigid commercial and industrial specifications. 
 
A major portion of the Company’s semiconductor manufacturing effort takes place after the semiconductor is assembled. Parts are tested a number of times, visually screened and environmentally subjected to shock, vibration, “burn in” and electrical tests in order to prove and assure reliability. 
 
The Company purchases silicon wafers, other semiconductor materials and packaging piece parts from domestic and foreign suppliers generally on long-term purchase commitments, which are cancelable with 30 to 90-day notices. With the exception of glass sleeves for high reliability diode products and glass to metal sealed parts for computer diode and zener diode products, all materials are available from multiple sources. In the case of sole source items, the Company has never suffered production delays as a result of suppliers’ inability to supply the parts. The Company believes that it stocks adequate supplies for all materials, based upon backlog, delivery lead-time and anticipated new business. In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into purchase agreements with some of its major suppliers to supply products over periods of up to 18 months. 
 
The Company also purchases a portion of its finished wafers from foundry sources. If a foundry were to terminate its relationship with the Company, or should the Company’s supply from a foundry be interrupted or terminated for any reason, such as a natural disaster or another unforeseen event, the Company may not have sufficient time to replace the supply of products manufactured by that foundry. 
 
There can be no assurance that the Company will obtain sufficient supply of product from foundry or subcontract assembly sources to meet customer demand in the future. Obtaining sufficient foundry capacity is particularly difficult during periods of high demand for foundry services, and may become substantially more difficult and more expensive if the Company’s product requirements increase. In addition, because the Company must order products and build inventory substantially in advance of product shipments, there is a risk that the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories for particular products. This inventory risk is heightened because certain of the Company’s key customers place orders with short lead times. 
 
RAW MATERIALS 
 
The Company’s manufacturing processes use certain key raw materials critical to its products. These include silicon wafers, certain chemicals and gases, ceramic and plastic packaging materials and various precious metals. The Company also relies on subcontractors to supply finished or semi-finished products which are marketed through its various sales channels. The Company obtains raw materials and semi-finished or finished products from various sources, although the number of sources for any particular material or product may be limited. The Company feels that its current supply of essential materials is adequate; however, shortages have 

14 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

occurred from time to time and could occur again. Significant increases in demand, rapid product mix changes or natural disasters, or other events, could affect the Company’s ability to procure materials or goods. 
 
SEASONALITY 
 
Generally, the Company is affected by the seasonal trends of the semiconductor and related industries. The impacts of seasonality are to some extent dependent on product and market mix of products shipped. These impacts can change from time to time and are not predictable. Historically the Company has experienced lower sales in the first fiscal quarter, primarily due to holiday schedules. 
 
COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS 
 
The semiconductor industry, including the areas in which the Company does business, is highly competitive. The Company expects intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants. Competition is based on price, product performance, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. The Company competes in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than the Company has, and thus may be better able to pursue acquisition candidates and to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with Microsemi may introduce competing products in the future. The Company has numerous competitors. Some of Microsemi’s current major competitors are Motorola, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., Philips Electronics, ON Semiconductor, L.L.C., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, Micrel Incorporated, International Rectifier Corporation, Semtech Corporation, Linear Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Diodes, Inc., Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and its subsidiary, Siliconix Incorporated. Some of Microsemi’s competitors in developing markets are Triquint Semiconductor, Inc., Mitel Corporation, RF Micro Devices, Inc., Conexant Systems, Inc., Anadigics, Inc. and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. The Company may not be able to compete successfully in the future or competitive pressures may harm Microsemi’s financial condition, operating results or cash flows. For more information, see the risk described as “The semiconductor business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce the value of Microsemi” under the heading “Important Factors Related to Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks” above. 
 
ORDER BACKLOG 
 
The Company’s consolidated order backlog at September 30, 2001 for delivery within twelve months was $88,763,000, as compared to $70,566,000 at September 29, 2002. The Company’s backlog at any particular date may not be representative of actual sales for any succeeding period because of various factors, which may include lead times, rate of release of purchase orders, which depends upon the scheduling practices of individual customers, and the delivery times of new or non-standard products, which can be affected by scheduling factors and other manufacturing considerations. The rate of booking new orders can vary significantly from month to month, and there is the continual possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations of orders having an adverse effect on actual sales. 
 
Also, a portion of the Company’s sales are to military and aerospace markets which are subject to the business risk of changes in governmental appropriations and changes in national defense policies and priorities. All of the Company’s contracts with prime U.S. Government contractors contain customary provisions permitting termination at any time at the convenience of the U.S. Government or the prime contractors upon payment to the Company for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit. Certain contracts are also subject to price re-negotiation in accordance with U.S. Government sole source procurement provisions. 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS 
 
To date, the Company’s compliance with federal, state and local laws or regulations that have been enacted to regulate the environment has not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s capital expenditures, earnings, competitive or financial position. 

15 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in semiconductor manufacturing processes. In addition, under some laws and regulations, the Company could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if its properties are contaminated or if it sends waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if the Company did not cause the contamination. Also, the Company may be subject to common law claims if the Company releases substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject Microsemi to serious liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. 
 
In the conduct of its manufacturing operations the Company has handled and does handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, the Company operates or owns facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from or within or through property. These risks may give rise to claims. Where third parties are responsible for contamination, the third parties may not have funds, or make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed under environmental laws and regulations. 
 
In Broomfield, Colorado, the Company has an agreement with prior owners of Microsemi’s property concerning clean-up costs associated with TCE and other contaminants present in the soil and groundwater. The Company has agreed to pay 10% and the former owners have agreed to pay 90% of these costs. They have also agreed to indemnify Microsemi from claims by third parties. The Company is not yet able to predict a possible range of the total additional costs that may be incurred in connection with this property. 
 
EMPLOYEES 
 
On September 29, 2002, the Company employed 1,572 persons domestically including 183 in engineering, 1,179 in manufacturing, 86 in marketing and 124 in general management and administration. Additionally, 217 persons were employed in the Company’s Mumbai, India operations, which was sold in October 2002 (see Note 16) and 97 persons in its Ennis, Ireland operations. None of the Company’s employees is represented by a labor union. The Company has experienced no work stoppage and believes its employee relations are good. 