Item 1. Business 


    The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in "Products" regarding the Company's expectations that DDR SDRAMs will account for a larger portion of DRAM sales in the future and "Manufacturing" regarding the transition to .13µ line-width process technology. The Company's actual results could differ materially from the Company's historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Certain Factors." All period references are to the Company's fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated.

    Financial data for 2000 and 1999 has been restated to reflect the disposition of the PC Operations in May 2001. The net assets, results of operations and cash flows of the PC business have been reported separately as discontinued PC Operations in the Company's consolidated financial statements. (See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Discontinued PC Operations.")

General 

    Micron Technology, Inc., and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Company") principally design, develop, manufacture and market semiconductor memory products. Micron Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1978. The Company's executive offices are located at 8000 South Federal Way, Boise, Idaho 83716-9632 and its telephone number is (208) 368-4000. Information about the Company is available on the internet at www.micron.com. 

    On May 31, 2001, Micron Electronics, Inc., formerly a 61% owned subsidiary of the Company, ("MEI"), completed the disposition of its PC operations to Gores Technology Group. On August 6, 2001, MEI completed a merger with Interland, Inc. in a stock-for-stock acquisition (the "Interland Merger"). Upon completion of the Interland Merger, MEI changed its name to Interland, Inc. ("Interland"), and the Company's ownership interest was reduced from 61% to 43% of Interland's outstanding common stock. On August 30, 2001, the Company contributed all of its shares of Interland common stock to the Micron Technology Foundation (the "Foundation"), a charitable organization established by the Company. 

    On April 30, 2001, the Company acquired Kobe Steel, Ltd.'s ("KSL") 75% interest in KMT Semiconductor Limited ("KMT") (the "KMT Acquisition") in a transaction that resulted in KMT becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. 

Semiconductor Operations 

Products and Services 

    The Company designs, develops and manufactures leading edge semiconductor memory products. The Company offers products with a wide variety of packaging and configuration options, architectures and performance characteristics to meet particular customer needs. 

    Dynamic Random Access Memory ("DRAM").  DRAM is the Company's primary semiconductor memory product. DRAMs are high density, low-cost-per-bit, random access memory components that store digital information and provide high-speed storage and retrieval of data. DRAMs are the most widely used semiconductor memory component in computer systems. DRAM sales represented approximately 87%, 94% and 95% of the Company's net sales in 2001, 2000 and 1999 respectively. 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Synchronous DRAMs ("SDRAMs") are memory components that operate faster than legacy DRAMs, due in part to the addition of a clock input that synchronizes inputs and allows PC systems to transfer data at faster rates, enabling subsystems to maintain pace with high speed CPUs and graphics engines. SDRAMs are currently the most popular and highest volume type of semiconductor memory used in computing, networking, communications, and consumer applications. The Company's primary product for 2001 was the 128 Meg SDRAM, available in multiple configurations, speeds and package types. The Company offers PC100 and PC133 64 Meg, 128 Meg and 256 Meg SDRAMs. The Company began shipping 256 Meg SDRAMs in 2001 and is developing 512 Meg SDRAMs. 

    The Company started shipping Double Data Rate ("DDR") SDRAMs in 2001 and expects them to account for a larger portion of DRAM sales in the future. DDR SDRAM is a higher bandwidth memory solution that leverages existing SDRAM technology by supporting data transfers on both edges of each clock cycle, effectively doubling the memory chip's data throughput. DDR SDRAMs are currently being used in high-end graphics and networking cards, and servers, workstation and desktop PC applications. 

    The Company continues to produce legacy DRAM products such as extended data out ("EDO") and fast page mode ("FPM") and lower density products such as the 64 Meg and 16 Meg DRAM. The Company also continues to design and develop other DRAM products, including Rambus® DRAM ("RDRAM®"). 

    Static Random Access Memory ("SRAM").  SRAMs are semiconductor devices that perform memory functions similar to DRAMs. SRAMs utilize a more complex memory cell and do not require the memory array to be periodically refreshed. This simplifies system design for memory applications utilizing SRAM and allows SRAM to operate faster than DRAM, although SRAM has a higher cost-per-bit than DRAM. The Company produces SRAMs for the high-performance or high-bandwidth applications that require a "buffer" or "cache" of high-speed memory to provide data access and data routing quickly. SRAMs are a key component in leading-edge telecommunications and networking applications where bandwidth is a critical system parameter. Sales of SRAM products represented approximately 4%, 2%, and 2% of the Company's total net sales in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. 

    Flash Memory ("Flash).  Flash products are non-volatile semiconductor devices that retain memory content when the power is turned off, and are electrically re-writeable. Flash is used in networking applications, workstations, servers, PCs, and handheld electronic devices such as digital cellular phones, digital cameras, and digital music players. Sales of Flash devices represented approximately 3%, 1% and 1% of the Company's total net sales in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. 

Manufacturing 

    The Company is a leading global manufacturer of semiconductor memory products with manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Italy, Japan, Singapore, and Scotland. The Company's manufacturing facilities operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. The Company develops leading edge manufacturing process technology at its research and development wafer fabrication facility in Boise, Idaho, which is then deployed to its fabrication facilities in Boise, Italy and Japan and its joint venture, TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ("TECH"). 

    The Company's process for manufacturing semiconductor products is complex, involving a number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication, assembly, burn-in and final test. Efficient production of semiconductor memory products requires utilization of advanced semiconductor manufacturing techniques and effective deployment of these techniques across multiple facilities. The primary determinants of manufacturing cost are die size (since the potential number of good die per wafer increases with reduced die size), number of mask layers and yield of acceptable die produced on each wafer. Other factors that contribute to manufacturing costs are wafer size, number of fabrication steps, cost and sophistication of manufacturing equipment, equipment utilization, process complexity, cost of 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

raw materials, labor productivity, package type and cleanliness of manufacturing environment. The Company is continuously enhancing production processes, reducing the die size of existing products and transitioning to higher density products. The Company has transitioned a majority of its manufacturing operations to .15µ line-width process technology and anticipates that it will move a significant portion of its manufacturing operations to .13µ line-width process technology in 2002. 

    Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize dust and other yield-and quality-limiting contaminants. Despite stringent manufacturing controls, dust particles, equipment errors, minute impurities in materials, defects in photomasks or other problems may cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be scrapped or individual circuits to be nonfunctional. Success of the Company's manufacturing operations depends largely on minimizing defects and thereby maximizing yield of high-quality circuits. In this regard, the Company employs rigorous quality controls throughout the manufacturing, screening and testing processes. The Company is able to recover many nonstandard devices by testing and grading them to their highest level of functionality. 

    After fabrication, silicon wafers are separated into individual die. Functional die are connected to external leads by extremely fine wire and assembled into plastic packages. Each completed package is then inspected, sealed and tested. The Company also sells semiconductor products in die and wafer form. The Company tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing process, performs high temperature burn-in on finished products and conducts numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production flow. In addition, the Company uses its proprietary AMBYX™ line of intelligent test and burn-in systems to perform simultaneous circuit tests of all die during the burn-in process, capturing quality and reliability data and reducing testing time and cost. 

    The Company assembles a significant portion of its memory products into memory modules before sale to customers. Memory modules consist of an array of memory components attached to printed circuit boards ("PCBs") that connect to computer systems or other electronic devices. Memory components are attached to PCBs in a soldering process performed by screen printing machines and high speed automated pick and place machines. Completed modules are tested by custom equipment and visual inspection. 

    TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.  TECH, which operates in Singapore, is a memory manufacturing joint venture among Micron Technology, Inc., the Singapore Economic Development Board, Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company. TECH's semiconductor manufacturing facilities use the Company's product and process technology. 

    Subject to specific terms and conditions, the Company has agreed to purchase all of the products manufactured by TECH. TECH supplied approximately 25%, 20% and 10% of the total megabits of memory produced by the Company in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. TECH is expected to require external financing to fund its ongoing operations. The Company's source of supply from TECH could be interrupted if TECH is unable to obtain required financing. The Company purchases semiconductor memory products from TECH at prices determined quarterly, generally based on a discount from average selling prices realized by the Company for the immediately preceding quarter. The Company performs assembly and test services on products manufactured by TECH. The Company also provides certain technology, engineering, and training support to TECH. All transactions with TECH are recognized as part of the net cost of products purchased from TECH. 

Availability of Raw Materials 

    The Company requires raw materials that meet exacting standards. The Company generally has multiple sources of supply; however, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet the Company's standards. Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead frames and molding compound. In addition, any transportation problems could delay the Company's receipt of raw 

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

materials. Although raw materials shortages or transportation problems have not interrupted the Company's operations in the past, shortages may occur from time to time in the future. Also, lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past. If the Company's supply of raw materials is interrupted, or lead times are extended, results of operations could be adversely affected. 

Marketing and Customers 

    The Company's memory products are sold primarily to the PC, telecommunications and networking hardware markets. The Company supplies several major PC original equipment manufacturers with more than 30% of their memory requirements. Sales to Dell Computer Corporation exceeded 10% of the Company's net sales in 2001, 2000 and 1999. In addition, sales to Compaq Computer Corporation exceeded 10% of the Company's net sales in 2000. 

    The Company markets its semiconductor memory products primarily through its own direct sales force. The Company's products are also offered through independent sales representatives, distributors and its retail sales division, Crucial Technology. The Company's products are offered under the Micron, SpecTek and Crucial brand names, and under other private labels. The Company maintains semiconductor sales offices in North America, Europe and Asia. Sales representatives obtain orders subject to final acceptance by the Company and are compensated on a commission basis. The Company makes shipments against these orders directly to the customer. Distributors carry the Company's products in inventory and typically sell a variety of other semiconductor products, including competitors' products. Semiconductor memory products sold through distributors approximated 17%, 13% and 11% of net sales in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. 

    The semiconductor memory industry is characterized by volatile market conditions, declining average selling prices, rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and enhancements, difficult product transitions and relatively short product life cycles. In recent periods the DRAM market has become relatively segmented, with diverse memory needs being driven by the different requirements of desktop and notebook PC's, servers, workstations, hand-helds, and communications, industrial and other applications that demand specific memory solutions. Many of the Company's customers require a thorough review or "qualification" of semiconductor memory products, which may take several months. As the Company further diversifies its product lines and reduces the die sizes of existing memory products, more products become subject to qualification. There can be no assurance that new products will be qualified for purchase by existing or potential customers. 

Backlog 

    Volatile industry conditions make it difficult for many customers to enter into long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, new order volumes for the Company's semiconductor memory products fluctuate significantly. Orders are typically accepted with acknowledgment that the terms may be adjusted to reflect market conditions at the shipping date. Customers can change delivery schedules or cancel orders without significant penalty. For these reasons, the Company does not believe that its backlog of semiconductor memory products as of any particular date is a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period. 

Product Warranty 

    Because the design and production process for semiconductor memory is highly complex, it is possible that the Company may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses. In accordance with industry practice, the Company generally provides a limited warranty that its semiconductor memory products are in compliance with Company specifications existing at the time of delivery. Under the Company's general terms and conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product during a stated warranty period is 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

usually limited to repair or replacement of defective items or return of amounts paid. Under certain circumstances the Company may provide more extensive limited warranty coverage. 

Competition 

    The semiconductor memory industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from a number of companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc., Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Infineon Technologies AG and Samsung Semiconductor, Inc. Some of these competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources or government support to withstand downturns in the semiconductor memory market, invest in technology and capitalize on growth opportunities. Like us, these competitors aggressively seek to improve yields, reduce die size and decrease mask levels in their product designs. These factors have significantly increased worldwide supply and put downward pressures on prices. 

Research and Development 

    To compete in the semiconductor memory industry, the Company must continue to develop technologically advanced products and processes. The Company believes that expansion of semiconductor product offerings is necessary to meet expected market demand for specific memory solutions. The Company's total research and development expenses were $490 million, $427 million and $321 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. 

    Research and development expenses vary primarily with the number of development wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development and personnel costs. The increase in research and development expenses in 2001 as compared to 2000 is primarily due to an increased number of development wafers processed and higher compensation expenses reflective of an increased number of personnel. Process technology research and development efforts are focused on .13µ and .11µ line-width process technologies which are designed to facilitate the Company's transition to next generation products. 

    In addition to process technology, the Company continues to emphasize product designs which utilize advanced process technology. Currently these designs include further shrink versions of the Company's 128 Meg and 256 Meg SDRAMs. Efforts towards the design and development of new products are concentrated on the Company's 512 Meg SDRAMs, DDR SDRAM, Flash and SRAM memory products. Other research and development efforts are devoted to the design and development of embedded memory and advanced DRAM technology ("ADT") products. The Company is also developing technologies designed to enable customers to more rapidly adopt the Company's advanced memory architectures. 

International Sales 

    International sales totaled $1.8 billion for 2001 and included approximately $780 million in sales to Europe and $640 million in sales to the Asia Pacific region. International sales totaled $2.8 billion for 2000 and $1.0 billion for 1999. 

Patents and Licenses 

    As of August 30, 2001, the Company owned 5,965 United States patents and 452 foreign patents. In addition, the Company has numerous United States and international patent applications pending. 

    From time to time, others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that the Company's products or processes infringe their product or process technology rights. In this regard, the Company is currently engaged in litigation with Rambus, Inc. ("Rambus") relating to certain of Rambus' patents and certain of the Company's claims and defenses. Lawsuits between Rambus and the Company are 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

pending in the United States, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy. On August 28, 2000, the Company filed a declaratory judgment action against Rambus in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. On February 1, 2001, the Company amended its complaint. Pursuant to its complaint, the Company is seeking (1) relief under the federal antitrust laws for violations by Rambus of Section 2 of the Sherman Act; (2) a declaratory judgment that (a) certain Rambus patents are not infringed, are invalid and/or are unenforceable, (b) the Company has an implied license to Rambus' patents, and (c) Rambus is estopped from enforcing its patents against the Company because of its conduct in the Joint Electron Device Engineering Council standards setting body; and (3) damages and declaratory relief for Rambus' breach of contract, fraud, deceptive trade practices, negligent misrepresentation, and conduct requiring the application of equitable estoppel. On February 15, 2001, Rambus filed an Answer and Counterclaim. Rambus denies that the Company is entitled to relief and has alleged willful infringement by the Company of eight Rambus patents. The Company cannot predict the outcome of these suits. A determination that the Company's manufacturing processes or products infringe the product or process rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require the Company to make material changes to its products and/or manufacturing processes. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. 

    The Company has a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements. Some of these license agreements require the Company to make one time or periodic payments. The Company may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future. The Company is unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms. 

Employees 

    As of August 30, 2001, the Company had approximately 18,100 employees, including approximately 4,000 and 2,000 employees in Asia and Europe, respectively. The Company's employees in Italy are represented by labor organizations that have entered into national and local labor contracts with the Company. The Company's employment levels can vary depending on market conditions and the level of the Company's production, research and product and process development. Many of the Company's employees are highly skilled, and the Company's continued success depends in part upon its ability to attract and retain such employees. The loss of key Company personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. 

Environmental Compliance 

    Government regulations impose various environmental controls on discharges, emissions and solid wastes from the Company's manufacturing processes. In 2001, the Company's wafer fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001 certification. To continue certification, the Company met requirements in environmental policy, compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training, communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness and response, record keeping and management review. While the Company has not experienced any materially adverse effects on its operations from environmental or other government regulations, changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures, modification of operations or other compliance actions. 

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Officers and Directors of the Registrant 

    Officers of the Company are appointed annually by the Board of Directors. Directors of the Company are elected annually by the shareholders of the Company. Any directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board serve until the next election by the shareholders. All officers and directors serve until their successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal. 

    As of August 30, 2001, the following executive officers and directors of the Company were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

Name

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Age
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Position
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Steven R. Appleton   41   Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 
Kipp A. Bedard   42   Vice President of Corporate Affairs 
Robert M. Donnelly   62   Vice President of Memory Products 
D. Mark Durcan   40   Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Research & Development 
Jay L. Hawkins   41   Vice President of Operations 
Roderic W. Lewis   46   Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 
Michael W. Sadler   43   Vice President of Sales 
Wilbur G. Stover, Jr.   48   Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer 
James W. Bagley   62   Director 
Robert A. Lothrop   75   Director 
Thomas T. Nicholson   65   Director 
Don J. Simplot   66   Director 
Gordon C. Smith   72   Director 
William P. Weber   61   Director 

    Steven R. Appleton joined the Company in February 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Appleton first became an officer of the Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions with the Company since that time. From April 1991 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on the Company's Board of Directors. Since September 1994, Mr. Appleton has served as the Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management from Boise State University. 

    Kipp A. Bedard joined the Company in November 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Bedard first became an officer of the Company in April 1990 and has served in various officer positions since that time. Since January 1994, Mr. Bedard has served as Vice President of Corporate Affairs for the Company. Mr. Bedard holds a BBA in Accounting from Boise State University. 

    Robert M. Donnelly joined the Company in September 1988 and has served in various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Donnelly first became an officer of the Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions since that time. Mr. Donnelly holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Louisville. 

    D. Mark Durcan joined the Company in 1984 and has served in various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries since that time. Mr. Durcan served as Vice President, Process Research and Development from June 1996 through June 1997, at which time he became Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Research & Development. Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MS in Chemical Engineering from Rice University. 

8


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Jay L. Hawkins joined the Company in March 1984 and has served in various manufacturing positions for the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Hawkins served as Vice President, Manufacturing Administration from February 1996 through June 1997, at which time he became Vice President of Operations. Mr. Hawkins holds a BBA in Marketing from Boise State University. 

    Roderic W. Lewis joined the Company in 1991 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Lewis served as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for the Company from July 1996 until November 1996, at which time he became Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School of Law. 

    Michael W. Sadler joined the Company in 1992 as a Regional Sales Manager and has held various sales and marketing positions since that time. Mr. Sadler first became an officer of the Company in 1997 and has served in his current position since January 2000. Mr. Sadler holds a BS in Information Systems and an MBA from the University of Santa Clara. 

    Wilbur G. Stover, Jr.  joined the Company in June 1989 and has served in various financial positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Since September 1994, Mr. Stover has served as the Company's Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Stover holds a BA in Business Administration from Washington State University. 

    James W. Bagley became the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lam Research Corporation ("Lam"), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in August 1997, upon consummation of a merger of OnTrak Systems, Inc. ("OnTrak"), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, into Lam. From June 1996 to August 1997, Mr. Bagley served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of OnTrak. Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc. and Wind River Systems, Inc. He has served on the Company's Board of Directors since June 1997. Mr. Bagley holds a BS and MS in Electrical Engineering from Mississippi State University. 

    Robert A. Lothrop served as Senior Vice President of J.R. Simplot Company, an agribusiness company, from January 1986 until his retirement in January 1991. From August 1986 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Lothrop has served on the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Lothrop holds a BS in Engineering from the University of Idaho. 

    Thomas T. Nicholson has served as Vice President and a Director of Honda of Seattle and Toyota of Seattle since 1988. Mr. Nicholson has also served since May 2000 as Vice President of Mountain View Equipment Company and from 1982 to May 2000 served as President of Mountain View Equipment Company. He has served on the Company's Board of Directors since May 1980. Mr. Nicholson holds a BS in Agriculture from the University of Idaho. 

    Don J. Simplot served as the President of Simplot Financial Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the J.R. Simplot Company, from February 1985 until January 1992. Since 1955, Mr. Simplot has served in various capacities with J.R. Simplot Company, including Director. He is a member of the Board of Directors of IMPCO Technologies, Inc. Mr. Simplot has served on the Company's Board of Directors since February 1982. 

    Gordon C. Smith has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of G.C. Smith L.L.C., a holding company for ranch operations and other investments, since May 2000. Mr. Smith served in various management positions from July 1980 until January 1992 for Simplot Financial Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the J.R. Simplot Company. From May 1988 until his retirement in March 1994, Mr. Smith served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of J.R. Simplot Company. From September 1996 until September 1999, he served as President of Wesmar, Inc., a food service 

9


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

company. From February 1982 until February 1984 and since September 1990, he has served on the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Smith holds a BS in Accounting from Idaho State University. 

    William P. Weber served in various capacities with Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor manufacturing company, and its subsidiaries from 1962 until April 1998. From December 1986 until December 1993 he served as the President of Texas Instrument's worldwide semiconductor operations and from December 1993 until his retirement in April 1998, he served as Vice Chairman of Texas Instruments Incorporated. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Unigraphics Solutions, Inc. He has served on the Company's Board of Directors since July 1998. Mr. Weber holds a BS in Engineering from Lamar University and a MS in Engineering from Southern Methodist University. 

    There is no family relationship between any director or executive officer of the Company. 
