Item 1.  Business

 

The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in “Products” regarding the Company’s expectation of a significant increase in sales of DDR2 products in 2005, the predominance of 512 Meg density devices by the end of 2005, growth in sales of the Company’s PSRAM and SDRAM products in 2005, the shipment of commercial volumes of RLDRAM in 2005 and significant growth in the markets for NAND Flash memory and CMOS image sensors; and in “Manufacturing” regarding the Company’s expectation to transition to 95nm line-width process technology in 2005.  The Company’s actual results could differ materially from the Company’s historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Certain Factors.”  All period references are to the Company’s fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated.

 

Corporate Information

 

Micron Technology, Inc., and its subsidiaries are hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Company.”  Micron Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1978.  The Company’s executive offices are located at 8000 South Federal Way, Boise, Idaho 83716-9632 and its telephone number is (208) 368-4000.  Information about the Company is available on the internet at www.micron.com.  Copies of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to these reports, are available through the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, and Governance and Compensation Committee Charter are also available on the Company’s website.  Information contained or referenced on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

Overview

 

The Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of Dynamic Random Access Memory (“DRAM”), Flash memory and CMOS image sensors.  The Company has been in the DRAM business since 1980, and in recent years it has been the second or third largest supplier of DRAM in the world.  Flash memory and CMOS image sensors have been added to the Company’s product portfolio in the last couple of years.  The Company’s products are used in a broad range of electronic devices, including personal computers, workstations, servers, cell phones, digital still cameras, and other consumer and industrial products.

 

The Company’s products are offered in a wide variety of package and configuration options, architectures, and performance characteristics tailored to meet application and customer needs.  Individual devices take advantage of the Company’s advanced silicon processing technology and manufacturing expertise. The Company continually introduces new generations of products that offer lower costs per megabit and improved performance characteristics.

 

Products
 

Dynamic Random Access Memory (“DRAM”)  DRAM products are high density, low-cost-per-bit, random access memory devices that provide high-speed data storage and retrieval.  DRAM products constituted 92%, 96% and 95% of the Company’s net sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  The Company offers DRAM products with a variety of performance, pricing and other characteristics.  The Company’s DRAM products may be classified as Core DRAM or Specialty memory.

 

Core DRAM  Core DRAM consists of standardized, high-volume, products that are sold primarily for use as main system memory in computers.  With the development, introduction and acceptance in the marketplace of new memory architectures, computer main memory has transitioned over time from extended data out (“EDO”) DRAM to synchronous DRAM (“SDRAM”) and most recently to Double Data Rate Synchronous DRAM (“DDR”) and DDR2.  As a result, the composition of the Company’s Core DRAM products has also shifted over time.  The Company’s Core DRAM products currently consist of DDR and DDR2.  EDO and SDRAM products are currently sold primarily

 

1


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

for use in applications other than computers, and are now classified as Specialty memory.  DDR products constituted most of the Company’s Core DRAM sales in 2004 and accounted for approximately 57%, 57% and 20% of the Company’s net sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Next generation DDR2 products, which offer increased performance characteristics such as greater clock frequency and bandwidth, began shipping in 2004 and are expected to grow noticeably in 2005 as new applications designed to take advantage of their superior performance are introduced.

 

In response to changes in the DRAM market, the Company has broadened its Core DRAM product offerings in recent years.  The Company offers DDR products in 128 Meg, 256 Meg, 512 Meg and 1 Gig densities.  The Company also offers 256 Meg and 512 Meg DDR2 products and has begun sampling 1 Gig DDR2.  The Company offers its DDR and DDR2 products in multiple configurations, speeds and package types.  In 2004, most of the Company’s Core DRAM products were 256 Meg density devices.  The Company expects 512 Meg devices to become the predominant density by the end of 2005.

 

Specialty Memory  The Company’s Specialty memory products include the Company’s legacy DRAM, pseudo-static RAM (“PSRAM”), mobile SDRAM and reduced latency DRAM (“RLDRAM™”) products.  Specialty memory products are generally targeted to applications with specific performance characteristics and sold in lower volumes than Core DRAM products.

 

Legacy DRAM  Legacy DRAM consists of SDRAM and EDO products which are primarily used in consumer applications, such as cell phones, handheld devices, computer peripherals and other communications equipment.  SDRAM sales constituted 31%, 37% and 70% of the Company’s net sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, declining as personal computer manufacturers transitioned to DDR products.  The Company offers 64 Meg, 128 Meg, 256 Meg and 512 Meg SDRAM products and 16 Meg and 64 Meg EDO products.

 

PSRAM  PSRAM products, marketed by the Company under the name CellularRAM™, are DRAM products with an SRAM-like interface.  PSRAM combines the minimal power consumption of SRAM with a much lower cost-per-bit to create an economical alternative to SRAM.  PSRAM products are used primarily in cellular phone applications.  The Company offers PSRAM products in 16 Meg, 32 Meg, 64 Meg and 128 Meg densities.  The Company began selling commercial volumes of PSRAM products in 2004 and sales are expected to increase significantly in 2005.

 

Mobile SDRAM  Mobile SDRAM products are specialty SDRAM memory devices designed for applications that demand minimal power consumption, primarily handheld electronic devices such as personal digital assistants (PDAs), smart phones, GPS devices, and digital still cameras.  The Company began selling commercial volumes of Mobile SDRAM products in 2004 and sales are expected to grow rapidly in 2005.

 

RLDRAM  RLDRAM products are low-latency DRAM memory devices with high clock rates targeted at network applications.  The Company began sampling RLDRAM products in 2004 and expects to begin shipping commercial volumes in 2005.

 

Flash Memory  Flash products are electrically re-writeable, non-volatile semiconductor devices that retain memory content when power is turned off.  Flash memory is used in networking applications, workstations, servers, personal computers, and handheld electronic devices such as digital cellular phones, digital still cameras and digital music players.  There are two primary types of flash memory:  NOR Flash and NAND Flash.  NOR Flash has a random access interface to data that enables fast read speeds, making it ideal for storage of program code that needs to be infrequently updated.  NAND Flash only allows sequential access to data, which reduces read time for some applications but offers faster erase and write times, higher density, and lower cost per bit than NOR Flash.  In addition, NAND Flash has significantly increased cycle endurance making it ideal for mass-storage devices.

 

Through 2004, the Company’s commercial Flash memory offerings consisted solely of NOR-based products.  The Company’s future plans for Flash memory are focused on NAND Flash, which uses semiconductor technology similar to DRAM.  The market for NAND Flash products has grown rapidly and is expected to continue to grow rapidly due to demand for removable and embedded storage devices.  Removable storage devices such as USB and Flash memory cards are used with applications such as personal computers, digital still cameras, MP3 players and mobile phones.  Embedded NAND-based storage devices are also beginning to be utilized in mobile phones in addition to, or in lieu of, NOR-based Flash storage.   The

 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Company has been developing NAND Flash products and expects to begin shipping commercial volumes of its 2 Gig NAND Flash products in 2005.

 

The Company plans to leverage its DRAM product and process technologies to compete in the NAND Flash memory market.  The Company’s NAND Flash designs feature a small cell structure that enables higher densities for demanding applications.  To compete in the NAND Flash market, the Company must successfully introduce new products, rapidly ramp production of products to commercial volumes and manufacture products cost-efficiently.

 

Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor (“CMOS”) Image Sensors  CMOS image sensors are semiconductor devices that capture and process images into pictures or video for a variety of consumer and industrial applications.  The Company’s CMOS image sensors are used in products such as cellular phone cameras, digital still cameras, pill cameras for medical use, automotive and other emerging applications.  The Company offers image sensors in a range of pixel resolutions from its VGA (video graphics array) products to its higher-end 3.1 megapixel products.  Image sensors are sold either as individual components or combined with integrated circuitry to create complete camera system-on-a-chip (“SOC”) solutions.  In 2004, the Company’s primary image sensor product was a VGA SOC sensor.  The Company began shipping commercial volumes of its higher resolution 1.3 megapixel, 2.0 megapixel and 3.1 megapixel image sensors in 2004.

 

The Company’s CMOS image sensors incorporating its DigitalClarity™ technology have many advantages over other CMOS image sensors and charge-coupled device (“CCD”) sensors, which have dominated the image sensor market until recent periods.  Unlike CCD sensors, which rely on specialized fabrication requiring dedicated, and costly manufacturing processes, CMOS image sensors can be manufactured using standardized semiconductor processes resulting in substantially lower costs.  The Company’s low-leakage DRAM processes are particularly well suited for the manufacture of CMOS image sensors.  The Company’s CMOS image sensors employ an “active-pixel” design architecture that enables them to achieve performance comparable to high-end CCD devices and higher than competitor’s CMOS image sensors.  The Company’s CMOS image sensors consume substantially less power than CCD devices, a critical advantage in the battery-dependent portable device applications where most image sensors are used.  The market for image sensors is expected to increase significantly over the next several years due to the growth forecasted for applications such as phone cameras and digital still cameras.

 

Manufacturing
 

The Company’s manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Italy, Japan, Puerto Rico, Scotland and Singapore.  The Company’s manufacturing facilities operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.

 

The Company’s process for manufacturing semiconductor products is complex, involving a number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication, assembly, burn-in and final test.  Efficient production of semiconductor products requires utilization of advanced semiconductor manufacturing techniques and effective deployment of these techniques across multiple facilities.  The primary determinants of manufacturing cost are die size, number of mask layers, number of fabrication steps and number of acceptable die produced on each wafer.  Other factors that contribute to manufacturing costs are wafer size, cost and sophistication of manufacturing equipment, equipment utilization, process complexity, cost of raw materials, labor productivity, package type and cleanliness of the manufacturing environment.  The Company is continuously enhancing production processes, reducing die sizes and transitioning to higher density products.  In 2004, the Company substantially completed the migration of its manufacturing operations to its 110 nanometer (“nm”) line-width process technology.  The Company expects to begin transitioning its manufacturing operations to 95nm line-width process technology in 2005.

 

Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize dust and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants.  Despite stringent manufacturing controls, dust particles, equipment errors, minute impurities in materials, defects in photomasks and circuit design marginalities or other problems cause wafers to be scrapped or individual circuits to be nonfunctional.  Success of the Company’s manufacturing operations depends largely on minimizing defects and thereby maximizing yield of high-quality circuits.  In this regard, the Company employs rigorous quality controls throughout the manufacturing, screening and testing processes.  The Company is able to recover many nonstandard devices by testing and grading them to their highest level of functionality.

 

After fabrication, silicon wafers are separated into individual die.  Functional die are sorted, connected to external leads and encapsulated in plastic packages.  The Company assembles products in a variety of packages, including TSOP (thin small outline package), TQFP (thin quad flat package) and FBGA (fine pitch ball grid array).  Each completed package is then inspected and tested.  The Company also sells semiconductor products in unpackaged die form.  The Company tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing process, performs high temperature burn-in on finished products and conducts numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production flow.  In addition, the Company uses its proprietary

 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

AMBYX™ line of intelligent test and burn-in systems to perform simultaneous circuit tests of DRAM die during the burn-in process, capturing quality and reliability data and reducing testing time and cost.

 

A significant portion of the Company’s memory products are assembled into memory modules for sale to customers.  Memory modules consist of an array of memory components attached to printed circuit boards (“PCBs”) that connect to computer systems or other electronic devices.  Memory components are attached to PCBs in a soldering process performed by screen printing machines and high speed automated pick and place machines.  Completed modules are tested by custom equipment and visually inspected.

 

In 2004, the Company qualified its first product at its 300mm wafer fabrication plant in Virginia.  The 512 Meg DDR device was produced on the Company’s 110nm process technology and is the industry’s first memory device in production to utilize copper interconnects.  The Company is ramping production at the Virginia wafer fabrication facility.  As of the end of 2004, production at the Virginia facility had not reached levels necessary to achieve mature product yield and cost-efficient utilization of the facility.  The Company is assessing which of its other facilities will be converted to 300mm wafer fabrication and when those facilities will be converted.

 

TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. (“TECH”)  TECH is a memory manufacturing joint venture in Singapore among Micron Technology, Inc., the Singapore Economic Development Board, Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company.  TECH’s semiconductor manufacturing facilities use the Company’s product and process technology.  Subject to specific terms and conditions, the Company has agreed to purchase all of the products manufactured by TECH.  TECH supplied approximately 30%, 30% and 20% of the total megabits of memory produced by the Company in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  The Company generally purchases semiconductor memory products from TECH at prices determined quarterly, based on a discount from average selling prices realized by the Company for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter.  The Company performs assembly and test services on product manufactured by TECH.  The Company also provides certain technology, engineering and training to support TECH.  All of these transactions with TECH are recognized as part of the net cost of products purchased from TECH.

 

Availability of Raw Materials
 

The Company’s production processes require raw materials that meet exacting standards, including several that are customized for, or unique to, the Company.  The Company generally has multiple sources of supply; however, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet the Company’s standards.  Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead frames, molding compound and other materials.  In addition, any transportation problems could delay the Company’s receipt of raw materials.  Although raw materials shortages or transportation problems have not interrupted the Company’s operations in the past, shortages may occur from time to time in the future.  Also, lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past.  If the Company’s supply of raw materials is interrupted, or lead times are extended, results of operations could be adversely affected.

 

Marketing and Customers
 

The Company’s products are sold into computing and consumer, networking and telecommunications, and imaging markets.  Approximately 75% of the Company’s net sales for 2004 were to the computing market.  Sales to both Dell Computer Corporation and Hewlett-Packard Company exceeded 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, and aggregated 27%, 28% and 28% of the Company’s net sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

 

The Company markets its semiconductor products primarily through its own direct sales force.  The Company maintains inventory at locations in close proximity to certain key customers to facilitate rapid delivery of product shipments.  The Company’s products are also offered through independent sales representatives, distributors and Crucial Technology, the Company’s web-based customer direct sales division.  The Company’s products are offered under the Micron, SpecTek and Crucial brand names, and under other private labels.  The Company maintains sales offices in all of its primary markets around the world.  Independent sales representatives obtain orders subject to final acceptance by the Company and are compensated on a commission basis.  The Company makes shipments against these orders directly to the customer.  Distributors carry the Company’s products in inventory and typically sell a variety of other semiconductor products, including competitors’ products.

 

Segmentation of the DRAM market continues, with diverse memory needs being driven by the different requirements of desktop and notebook personal computers, servers, workstations, handheld devices, and communications, industrial and other applications that demand specific memory solutions.  Many of the Company’s customers require a thorough review or

 

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

qualification of semiconductor products, which may take several months.  As the Company further diversifies its product lines and reduces the die sizes of existing memory products, more products become subject to qualification which may delay volume introduction of specific devices by the Company.

 

Backlog
 

Volatile industry conditions make customers reluctant to enter into long-term, fixed-price contracts.  Accordingly, new order volumes for the Company’s semiconductor products fluctuate significantly.  Orders are typically accepted with acknowledgment that the terms may be adjusted to reflect market conditions at the date of shipment.  Customers can change delivery schedules or cancel orders without significant penalty.  For these reasons, the Company does not believe that its order backlog as of any particular date is a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period.

 

Product Warranty
 

Because the design and manufacturing process for semiconductor products is highly complex, it is possible that the Company may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses.  In accordance with industry practice, the Company generally provides a limited warranty that its products are in compliance with Company specifications existing at the time of delivery.  Under the Company’s general terms and conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product during a stated warranty period is usually limited to repair or replacement of defective items or return of, or a credit with respect to, amounts paid for such items.  Under certain circumstances the Company may provide more extensive limited warranty coverage and general legal principles may impose more extensive liability than that provided under the Company’s general terms and conditions.

 

Competition
 

The Company faces intense competition from a number of companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc., Hynix Semiconductor Inc., Infineon Technologies AG and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.  Additionally, the Company faces competition from emerging companies in Taiwan and China who have announced plans to significantly expand the scale of their operations.  Some of the Company’s competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which the Company competes, invest in technology and capitalize on growth opportunities.  The Company’s competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs.  These factors have significantly increased worldwide supply and put downward pressure on prices.

 

Historically, various governments have provided economic assistance to international competitors, which has enabled, or artificially supported, competitors’ production of semiconductor memory, particularly DRAM.  This factor may continue to affect the supply of DRAM and other semiconductor products in future periods.

 

Research and Development
 

To compete in the semiconductor memory industry, the Company must continue to develop technologically advanced products and processes.  The Company believes that expansion of its semiconductor product offerings is necessary to meet expected market demand for specific memory solutions.  The Company has several product design centers around the world, the largest located at its corporate headquarters in Boise, Idaho.  In addition, the Company has a facility at its Boise site to develop leading edge photolithography mask technology.

 

R&D expenses vary primarily with the number of development wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel costs.  Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture the Company’s products, the Company typically begins to process wafers before completion of performance and reliability testing.  The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability and is internally qualified for sale to customers.  R&D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of product qualification.  Product development costs are recorded as R&D expense.  The Company’s R&D expenses were $754.9 million, $656.4 million and $561.3 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

The Company’s process technology R&D efforts are focused primarily on development of 95nm and 78nm and smaller line-width process technologies, which are designed to facilitate the Company’s transition to next generation products.  Additional R&D efforts include process development to support the Company’s 300mm wafer manufacturing, CMOS image sensors, Flash memory, Specialty memory products including PSRAM and RLDRAM and new memory manufacturing materials.  Efforts toward the design and development of new products are concentrated on the Company’s 512 Meg and 1 Gig DDR, DDR2 and DDR3 DRAM products as well as NAND Flash memory, CMOS image sensors and Specialty memory products.

 

International Sales
 

Sales to customers outside the United States totaled $2.6 billion for 2004 and included $863.7 million in sales to Europe, $559.8 million in sales to China, $354.8 million in sales to Japan and $632.9 million in sales to the rest of the Asia Pacific region, excluding China and Japan.  International sales totaled $1.7 billion for 2003 and $1.4 billion for 2002.  (See “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Geographic Information.”)

 

Patents and Licenses
 

As of September 2, 2004, the Company owned approximately 11,300 U.S. patents and 1,000 foreign patents.  In addition, the Company has numerous U.S. and foreign patent applications pending.  The Company’s patents have terms expiring through 2023.

 

The Company has a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require the Company to make one time or periodic payments.  The Company may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future.  The Company is unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.

 

Employees
 

As of September 2, 2004, the Company had approximately 17,900 employees, including approximately 11,900 in the United States, 2,700 in Singapore, 1,700 in Italy, 1,100 in Japan and 300 in the United Kingdom.  The Company’s employees in Italy are represented by labor organizations that have entered into national and local labor contracts with the Company.  The Company’s employment levels can vary depending on market conditions and the level of the Company’s production, research and product and process development.  Many of the Company’s employees are highly skilled, and the Company’s continued success depends in part upon its ability to attract and retain such employees.  The loss of key Company personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition.

 

Environmental Compliance
 

Government regulations impose various environmental controls on discharges, emissions and solid wastes from the Company’s manufacturing processes.  In 2004, the Company’s wafer fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001 certification.  To continue certification, the Company met annual requirements in environmental policy, compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training, communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness and response, record keeping and management review.  While the Company has not experienced any materially adverse effects on its operations from environmental regulations, changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures, modification of operations or other compliance actions.

 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
 

Officers of the Company are appointed annually by the Board of Directors.  Directors of the Company are elected annually by the shareholders of the Company.  Any directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board serve until the next election by the shareholders.  All officers and directors serve until their successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal.

 

As of September 2, 2004, the following executive officers and directors of the Company were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

 

Name
  
 Age
  
 Position
 
Steven R. Appleton
  
 44
  
 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
 
Kipp A. Bedard
  
 45
  
 Vice President of Investor Relations
 
Robert M. Donnelly
  
 65
  
 Vice President of Computing and Consumer Group
 
Jan du Preez  
  
 47
  
 Vice President of Networking and Communications Group  
 
D. Mark Durcan  
  
 43
  
 Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Research and Development
 
Robert J. Gove
  
 50
  
 Vice President of Imaging Group
 
Jay L. Hawkins
  
 44
  
 Vice President of Operations
 
Roderic W. Lewis
  
 49
  
 Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
 
Michael W. Sadler
  
 46
  
 Vice President of Worldwide Sales
 
Wilbur G. Stover, Jr.
  
 51
  
 Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer
 
James W. Bagley
  
 65
  
 Director
 
Ronald C. Foster
  
 54
  
 Director
 
Robert A. Lothrop
  
 78
  
 Director
 
Thomas T. Nicholson
  
 68
  
 Director
 
Gordon C. Smith
  
 75
  
 Director
 
William P. Weber
  
 64
  
 Director
 

 

Steven R. Appleton joined the Company in February 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Appleton first became an officer of the Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions with the Company since that time.  From April 1991 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on the Company’s Board of Directors.  Since September 1994, Mr. Appleton has served as the Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company.  Mr. Appleton is a member of the Board of Directors of National Semiconductor Corporation.  Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management from Boise State University.

 

Kipp A. Bedard joined the Company in November 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Bedard first became an officer of the Company in April 1990 and has served in various officer positions since that time.  Since January 1994, Mr. Bedard has served as Vice President of Investor Relations for the Company.  Mr. Bedard holds a BBA in Accounting from Boise State University.

 

Robert M. Donnelly joined the Company in September 1988 and has served in various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Donnelly first became an officer of the Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions since that time.  Mr. Donnelly holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Louisville.

 

Jan du Preez joined the Company in June 2002 as Vice President of Networking and Communications Group.  Mr. du Preez served as the President of Infineon Technologies North America Corporation from August 2000 until he joined the Company in June 2002.  From October 1996 through July 2000, Mr. du Preez served as the Vice President of Memory Products Group for Infineon Technologies North America Corporation (formerly Siemens Semiconductors).  Mr. du Preez holds Bachelors Degrees in Public Administration and Business Economics from the University of Pretoria and a Masters Degree in Commerce from Rand University.

 

D. Mark Durcan joined the Company in June 1984 and has served in various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries since that time.  Mr. Durcan served as Vice President, Process Research and Development from June 1996 through June 1997, at which time he became Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Research and Development.  Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MChE in Chemical Engineering from Rice University.

 

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 

Robert J. Gove joined the Company in March 1999 as Senior Director of Engineering and has served in various positions with the Company.  In March 2002, he was appointed Vice President of Imaging.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gove served as Vice President, Engineering, of Equator Technologies, Inc.  Mr. Gove holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and an MS in Electrical Engineering and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University.

 

Jay L. Hawkins joined the Company in March 1984 and has served in various manufacturing positions for the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Hawkins served as Vice President, Manufacturing Administration from February 1996 through June 1997, at which time he became Vice President of Operations.  Mr. Hawkins holds a BBA in Marketing from Boise State University.

 

Roderic W. Lewis joined the Company in August 1991 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Mr. Lewis has served as Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 1996.  Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School of Law.

 

Michael W. Sadler joined the Company in September 1992 as a Regional Sales Manager and has held various sales and marketing positions since that time.  Mr. Sadler became an officer of the Company in July 1997 and has served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales since November 2001.  Mr. Sadler holds a BS in Information Systems and an MBA from the University of Santa Clara.

 

Wilbur G. Stover, Jr. joined the Company in June 1989 and has served in various financial positions with the Company and its subsidiaries.  Since September 1994, Mr. Stover has served as the Company’s Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Stover holds a BA in Business Administration from Washington State University.

 

James W. Bagley became the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lam Research Corporation (“Lam”), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in August 1997.  Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc.  He has served on the Company’s Board of Directors since June 1997.  Mr. Bagley holds a BS and MS in Electrical Engineering from Mississippi State University.

 

Ronald C. Foster joined the Board of Directors in June 2004.  Since February 2003, Mr. Foster has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of JDS Uniphase Corporation.  From November 1998 to February 2003, Mr. Foster served in various management positions with Novell Corporation, including three years as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Foster has an MBA from the University of Chicago and a BA in Economics from Whitman College.

 

Robert A. Lothrop served as Senior Vice President of J.R. Simplot Company, an agribusiness company, from January 1986 until his retirement in January 1991.  From August 1986 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Lothrop has served on the Board of Directors of the Company.  Mr. Lothrop holds a BS in Engineering from the University of Idaho.

 

Thomas T. Nicholson has served as Vice President and a Director of Honda of Seattle and Toyota of Seattle since 1988.  Mr. Nicholson served from 1982 to May 2000 as President, and since May 2000 as Vice President, of Mountain View Equipment Company.  He has served on the Company’s Board of Directors since May 1980.  Mr. Nicholson holds a BS in Agriculture from the University of Idaho.

 

Gordon C. Smith has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of G.C. Smith L.L.C., a holding company for ranch operations and other investments, since May 2000.  From July 1980 to March 1994, Mr. Smith served in various management positions with J. R. Simplot Company, including four years as President and Chief Executive Officer, and seven years as Chief Financial Officer.  From February 1982 until February 1984 and since September 1990, he has served on the Company’s Board of Directors.  Mr. Smith holds a BS in Accounting from Idaho State University.

 

William P. Weber served in various capacities with Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor manufacturing company, and its subsidiaries from 1962 until April 1998.  From December 1986 until December 1993 he served as the President of Texas Instruments’ worldwide semiconductor operations and from December 1993 until his retirement in April 1998, he served as Vice Chairman of Texas Instruments Incorporated.  He has served on the Company’s Board of Directors since July 1998.  Mr. Weber holds a BS in Engineering from Lamar University and a MS in Engineering from Southern Methodist University.

 

There is no family relationship between any director or executive officer of the Company.
