ITEM 1. BUSINESS

        Established in 1983, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., ("Maxim" or the
"Company") designs, develops, manufactures, and markets a broad range of linear
and mixed-signal integrated circuits, commonly referred to as analog circuits.
The Company also provides a range of high-frequency design processes and
capabilities that can be used in custom design. The analog market is highly
fragmented and characterized by many diverse applications, a great number of
product variations, and, as to many circuit types, relatively long product life
cycles. Maxim's objective is to develop and market both proprietary and
industry-standard analog integrated circuits that meet the increasingly
stringent quality standards demanded by customers. Based on product
announcements by its competitors, Maxim believes that in the past 17 years it
has developed more products for the analog market, including proprietary and
second-source products, than any of its competitors over the same period.

THE ANALOG INTEGRATED CIRCUIT MARKET

        All electronic signals fall into one of two categories, linear or
digital. Linear (or analog) signals represent real world phenomena, such as
temperature, pressure, sound, or speed, and are continuously variable over a
wide range of values. Digital signals represent the "ones" and "zeros" of binary
arithmetic and are either on or off.

        Three general classes of semiconductor products arise from this
partitioning of signals into linear or digital. There are those, such as
memories and microprocessors, that operate only in the digital domain. There are
linear devices such as amplifiers, references, analog multiplexers, and switches
that operate primarily in the analog domain. Finally, there are mixed-signal
devices that combine linear and digital functions on the same integrated circuit
and interface between the analog and digital worlds. Maxim targets both the
linear and mixed-signal markets, often collectively referred to as the analog
market.

        The Company believes that, compared to the digital integrated circuit
market, the analog market has generally been characterized by a wider range of
standard products used in smaller quantities by a larger number of customers,
and in many cases, by longer product life cycles and lower capital requirements
as a result of generally using more mature manufacturing technologies. The
Company believes that the widespread application of low-cost
microprocessor-based systems and of digital communication technologies has
affected the market for analog integrated circuits by increasing the need for
interfaces with the analog world.



                                       4
<PAGE>   5

        The analog market is a highly fragmented group of niche markets, serving
numerous and widely differing applications for instrumentation, industrial
control, data processing, communications, military, video, and selected medical
equipment. For each application, different users may have unique requirements
for circuits with specific resolution, accuracy, linearity, speed, power, and
signal amplitude capability, which results in a high degree of market
complexity. Maxim's products can be used in a variety of applications, but serve
only certain segments of the total analog market.

PRODUCTS AND APPLICATIONS

        The Company believes it addresses the requirements of the market by
providing competitively priced products that add value to electronic equipment
with superior quality and reliability.

        The Company's research and development programs emphasize development of
technically innovative proprietary products. In addition, the Company also
develops second source products used for industry-standard parts. In the
Company's fiscal 2000 product introduction year ending July 22, 2000, Maxim
introduced over 380 products bringing the Company's total new product
introductions to over 2,100 products. These products are available with numerous
packaging alternatives, including packages for surface mount technology.

        The following table illustrates the major industries served by the
Company and typical applications for which the Company's products can be used:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
               Industry                      Typical Application
               --------                      -------------------
<S>                                          <C>
               Communications .............  Broadband Networks
                                             Cable Systems
                                             Central Office Switches
                                             Direct Broadcast TV
                                             Fiber Optics
                                             Pagers
                                             PBXs
                                             Phones
                                                  * Cellular/PCS
                                                  * Cordless
                                             Satellite Communications
                                             Video Communications
                                             Wireless Communications
</TABLE>


                                       5
<PAGE>   6

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                          <C>
               Industrial Control .........  Control of
                                                  * Flow
                                                  * Position
                                                  * Pressure
                                                  * Temperature
                                                  * Velocity
                                             Robotics

               Instrumentation ............  Automatic Test Equipment
                                             Analyzers
                                             Data Recorders
                                             Measuring Instruments
                                                  * Electrical
                                                  * Light
                                                  * Pressure
                                                  * Sound
                                                  * Speed
                                                  * Temperature
                                                  * Time
                                             Testers

               Data Processing ............  Bar-code Readers
                                             Disk Drives
                                             Hand-Held Computers/PDAs
                                             Mainframes
                                             Personal Computers
                                             Printers
                                             Point of Sale Terminals
                                             Tape Drives
                                             Servers
                                             Workstations
</TABLE>

        The Company also sells products for military, video and selected medical
equipment.

        While Maxim's proprietary products have received substantial market
acceptance, Maxim has experienced additional competition as Maxim's competitors
have developed second source products for some of Maxim's successful innovative
proprietary products. Typically in the semiconductor industry, when a
proprietary product becomes second sourced, the credibility of the original
design is enhanced, and there is an opportunity to increase total revenues as
the potential customers' reluctance to design in a sole-source product is
removed, but gross margins may be adversely affected due to increased price
competition.



                                       6
<PAGE>   7

PRODUCT QUALITY

        Maxim places strong emphasis on product quality from initial design
through final quality assurance for the end product. In the product design
phase, Maxim applies a set of circuit design rules that it believes results in
enhanced product reliability. Upon receipt from Maxim's own fabrication
facilities or from silicon foundries, a majority of processed wafers are tested
for conformance with specific parameters. Products are individually tested using
specialized test equipment and complex programs to ensure that they meet data
sheet performance levels. In addition, long-term operating life and mechanical
stress tests are routinely performed on samples to assure continued, long-term
product performance.

MANUFACTURING

        Maxim uses its own wafer fabrication facilities and, to a small extent,
silicon foundries to produce wafers. The majority of processed wafers are
subjected to parametric and functional testing at the Company's facilities. As
is customary in the industry, the Company ships most of its processed wafers to
foreign assembly subcontractors, located in the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand
and South Korea, where wafers are separated into individual integrated circuits
and assembled into a variety of packages.

        After assembly has been completed, the majority of the assembled product
is shipped to the Company's test facility located in Cavite, the Philippines.
Once testing has been completed, the finished product is either shipped directly
to customers worldwide or to other Company locations for ultimate sale to end
customers.

        In fiscal 2000, the Company began the process of hiring employees and
purchasing capital equipment for a second test facility to be located in
Thailand. In addition, the Company is also expanding its existing test facility
in Cavite, the Philippines.

        The broad range of products demanded by the analog integrated circuit
market requires multiple manufacturing process technologies. Many different
process technologies are currently used for wafer fabrication of the Company's
products. Historically, wafer fabrication of analog integrated circuits has not
required the state-of-the-art processing equipment necessary for the fabrication
of advanced digital integrated circuits, although newer processes do utilize and
require some of these facilities and equipment.

        In addition, hybrid products are manufactured using a complex multichip
technology featuring thin-film, thick-film, and laser-trimmed resistors.

        For the majority of these technologies, the Company relies on its
fabrication facilities in San Jose, California and Beaverton, Oregon and, to a
small extent, manufacturing subcontractors. A third fabrication facility located
in Sunnyvale, California was phased out during fiscal 1999. The Company
currently uses four subcontract silicon foundries that represent less than 5% of
wafer production. None of the subcontractors currently used by Maxim is
affiliated with Maxim.



                                       7
<PAGE>   8

        Most of the wafers produced in fiscal 2000 were manufactured at one of
the Company's two operating wafer manufacturing facilities. In December 1989,
the Company acquired a wafer fabrication facility in Sunnyvale, California
capable of producing 3 micron CMOS and bipolar products. Maxim leased the
building housing the facility and purchased all manufacturing assets required
for its manufacturing operations. In May 1994, the Company acquired a
mixed-class wafer fabrication facility in Beaverton, Oregon capable of producing
CMOS and bipolar products. In November 1997, the company acquired a sub-micron
wafer fabrication facility in San Jose, California. The Company transferred
production from the Sunnyvale facility to the Beaverton facility and suspended
wafer production at this facility in December 1998. (See "Item 2. Properties"
below).

        In the past and as sometimes happens in the semiconductor industry, the
Company has experienced disruptions in the supply of processed wafers due to
quality problems or failure to achieve satisfactory electrical yields. If the
foundries used by the Company were unwilling or the Company's own internal wafer
fabrication facilities were unable to produce adequate supplies of processed
wafers conforming to the Company's quality standards, the Company's business and
relationships with its customers could be adversely affected.

        Due to the relatively lengthy manufacturing cycle, the Company builds
some of its inventory in advance of receiving orders from its customers. As a
consequence of inaccuracies inherent in forecasting, inventory imbalances
periodically occur that result in surplus amounts of some Company products and
shortages of others. Such shortages can adversely affect customer relations and
surpluses can result in larger-than-desired inventory levels which can adversely
affect the Company's financial position. Excess inventory issues can also arise
when customers cancel orders. Finished products and work in process for those
orders may be unsaleable. See "Risk Factors - Factors Affecting Future Operating
Results."

SALES AND MARKETING

        In the United States and Canada, the Company sells its products through
a direct sales and applications organization in eight regional sales offices and
through its own and other unaffiliated distribution channels. As is customary in
the industry, most domestic distributors are entitled to certain price rebates
and product return privileges.

        International sales are conducted by 22 Maxim sales offices, 3 sales
representative organizations and 32 distributors. The Company sells in both
United States dollars and various foreign currencies. A majority of the
Company's international sales are billed and payable in United States dollars
and are therefore not directly subject to currency exchange fluctuations. A
portion of the Company's sales from its United Kingdom, French, and German
affiliates is denominated in the local currencies. The majority of the sales to
customers and distributors located in Japan are denominated in yen. The Company
enters into foreign currency forward contracts to protect the United States
dollar value of its firm sales commitments and net monetary assets. Changes in
the relative value of the dollar, however, may create pricing pressures for
Maxim's products. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation
have been proposed in the United States and certain foreign countries. A change
in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect the
Company's foreign marketing strategies. In general, payment



                                       8
<PAGE>   9

terms for foreign customers, distributors and others, are longer than for U.S.
customers, and certain major foreign customers generally pay for product well
beyond the scheduled payment dates. As is customary in the semiconductor
industry, the Company's domestic distributors may market products competitive
with Maxim's.

        International sales accounted for approximately 57%, 59%, and 56% of net
revenues in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. (See Note 11 "Segment
Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as set forth in
the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended June 24,
2000.)

        The Company also sells product directly to original equipment
manufacturers. In particular, the Company has a long-term supply arrangement,
which expires in May 2004 after which becomes a month to month arrangement, with
Tektronix, Inc. for the supply of products manufactured by Tektronix prior to
its sale in May 1994 of its integrated circuits operation ("ICO") to the Company
and for new designs created by Tektronix.

        As of June 24, 2000, the Company's backlog was approximately $420
million as compared to approximately $166 million at June 26, 1999. The Company
includes in its backlog customer-released orders with firm schedules for
shipment within the next 12 months. As is customary in the semiconductor
industry, these orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the
customers. In addition, the Company's backlog includes orders from domestic
distributors as to which revenues are not recognized until the products are sold
by the distributors. Accordingly, the Company believes that its backlog at any
time should not be used as a measure of future revenues. All of the backlog
numbers have been adjusted to be net of cancellations and estimated future U.S.
distribution ship and debit pricing adjustments.

        The Company warrants its products to its customers generally for 12
months from shipment, but in certain cases for longer periods. Warranty expense
to date has been minimal.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

        The Company believes that research and development is critical to its
future success. Objectives for the research and development function include
definition and design of innovative proprietary products that meet customer
needs, development of second-source products, design of parts for high yield and
reliability, and development of manufacturing processes and advanced packaging
to support an expanding product line.

        Due to the research and development plans of the Company and the
shortage of qualified design engineering talent, the Company does not always
have the number of engineers required to meet its research and development
goals.

        Research and development expenses were approximately $142.3 million,
$88.2 million, and $72.2 million in fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

COMPETITION



                                       9
<PAGE>   10

        The analog integrated circuit industry is intensely competitive, and
virtually all major semiconductor companies presently compete with, or
conceivably could compete with, some segment of the Company's business. Maxim's
competitors are Analog Devices, Inc., Applied Micro Circuits Corporation,
Conexant Systems Inc., Dallas Semiconductor Corporation, Harris Corporation,
Linear Technology Corporation, Lucent Technologies, Micrel Inc., Mitsubishi
Corporation, Mitsui & Co. Ltd., Motorola Inc., National Semiconductor
Corporation, Philips Electronics N.V., Ricoh Company Ltd., Seiko Corporation,
Semtech Corporation, STMicroelectronics N.V., Siliconix Inc., Sipex Corporation,
TelCom Semiconductor Inc., Texas Instruments Inc., Vitesse Semiconductor
Corporation and others, including start-up companies. While foreign
manufacturers have not played a major role in markets from which the Company
currently derives a majority of its revenue, they possess the necessary
technical and financial capabilities to participate in these markets, and there
can be no assurance that more foreign competition will not develop in the
future. Some of Maxim's competitors have substantially greater financial,
manufacturing, and marketing resources than the Company, and some of Maxim's
competitors have greater technical resources. The Company believes it competes
favorably with these corporations primarily on the basis of technical
innovation, product definition, quality, and service. There can be no assurance
that competitive factors will not adversely affect the Company's future
business.

PATENTS, LICENSES, AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

        The Company relies primarily upon know-how, rather than on patents, to
develop and maintain its competitive position. There can be no assurance that
others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer the
Company's products or that the confidentiality agreements with employees,
consultants, silicon foundries and other suppliers and vendors will be adequate
to protect the Company's interests.

        Maxim currently owns 106 U.S. patents and 18 foreign patents with
expiration dates ranging from 2001 to 2018. In addition, the Company has applied
for 73 U.S. patents, a large number of which have corresponding patent
applications in multiple foreign jurisdictions. It is the Company's policy to
seek patent protection for significant inventions that may be patented, though
the Company may elect, in appropriate cases, not to seek patent protection even
for significant inventions if other protection, such as maintaining the
invention as a trade secret, is considered more advantageous. In addition, the
Company has registered certain of its mask sets under the Semiconductor Chip
Protection Act of 1984.

        There can be no assurance that any patent will issue on pending
applications or that any patent issued will provide substantive protection for
the technology or product covered by it. The Company believes that patent and
mask work protection is of less significance in its business than experience,
innovation, and management skill.

        Maxim has registered several of its trademarks with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office and in foreign jurisdictions.

        Maxim is a party to a number of licenses, including patent licenses and
other licenses obtained from Tektronix in connection with its acquisition of
Tektronix's ICO in May 1994.



                                       10
<PAGE>   11

        Due to the many technological developments and the technical complexity
of the semiconductor industry, it is possible that certain of the Company's
designs or processes may involve infringement of patents or other intellectual
property rights held by others. From time to time, the Company has received, and
in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by its products on
intellectual property rights of third parties. (See "Risk Factors-Intellectual
Property Litigation and Claims," and "Legal Proceedings") If any such
infringements were to exist, the Company might be obligated to seek a license
from the holder of the rights and might have liability for past infringement. In
the past, it has been common semiconductor industry practice for patent holders
to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. Although in some situations,
typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of
products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses, though the practice of
offering licenses appears to be generally continuing. However, no assurance can
be given that the Company will be able to obtain licenses as needed in all cases
or that the terms of any license that may be offered will be acceptable to
Maxim. In those circumstances where an acceptable license is not available, the
Company would need either to change the process or product so that it no longer
infringes or else stop manufacturing the product or products involved in the
infringement.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

        Federal, state, and local regulations impose a variety of environmental
controls on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals
and gases used in semiconductor manufacturing. The Company's facilities have
been designed to comply with these regulations, and it believes that its
activities are conducted in material compliance with such regulations. There can
be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or
future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon the
Company. Any failure of the Company to control adequately the storage, use, and
disposal of regulated substances could result in future liabilities.

        Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact
of electronic manufacturing operations. While the Company to date has not
experienced any materially adverse effects on its business from environmental
regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such regulations will not
have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial position or results
of operations.

EMPLOYEES

        The supply of skilled engineers required for Maxim's business is
limited, and competition for such personnel is intense. The Company's growth
also requires the hiring or training of additional middle-level managers. If the
Company is unable to hire, retain, and motivate qualified technical and
management personnel, its operations and financial results will be adversely
affected.

        None of the Company's employees is subject to a collective bargaining
agreement.

        As of June 24, 2000, Maxim had 4,181 employees.



                                       11
<PAGE>   12

RISK FACTORS

        An investment in the securities of Maxim involves certain risks. In
evaluating the Company and its business, prospective investors should give
careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the
information provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the
documents incorporated herein by reference and in other documents filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

        The statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including
those contained in documents incorporated herein by reference, that are not
purely historical are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding
the Company's beliefs, expectations, plans, or intentions regarding the future.
All forward-looking statements included in this document are made as of the date
hereof, based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and
the Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. It is
important to note that the Company's actual results could differ materially from
those in such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K involve risk and uncertainty, including but not
limited to the risk factors discussed below.

Factors Affecting Future Operating Results

        The Company's future operating results are difficult to predict and may
be affected by a number of factors.

        Important factors affecting the Company's ability to achieve future
revenue growth include whether, and the extent to which, demand for the
Company's products increases and reflects real end user demand, whether customer
cancellations and delays of outstanding orders increase, and whether the Company
is able to manufacture in the correct mix to respond to orders on hand and new
orders received in the future.

        The semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to
significant economic downturns at various times. After a period of decreasing
demand that extended into fiscal 1999, more recently the semiconductor industry,
including the portions in which the Company participates, has been experiencing
increased demand. These increases in demand have the potential to exceed
available capacity of various suppliers to equipment manufactures. If capacity
becomes constrained, this could result in reduction of orders on Maxim by the
affected equipment manufactures.

        Other key factors affecting the Company's revenues and operating results
that could cause actual results to differ materially from past or predicted
results include the timing of new product announcements or introductions by the
Company and its competitors, competitive pricing pressures, fluctuations in
manufacturing yields and manufacturing efficiency, adequate availability of
wafers and manufacturing capacity, changes in product mix, and economic
conditions in the United States and international markets. As a result of these
and other factors, there can be no assurance that the Company will not
experience material fluctuations in its future operating results on a quarterly
or annual basis.



                                       12
<PAGE>   13

        As noted above, the Company's ability to realize its quarterly revenue
goals and projections is affected to a significant extent by its ability to
match inventory and current production mix with the product mix required to
fulfill orders on hand and orders received within a quarter for delivery in that
quarter (referred to as "turns business"). This issue, which has been one of the
distinguishing characteristics of the analog integrated circuit industry,
results from the very large number of individual parts offered for sale, the
very large number of customers combined with limitations on Maxim's and its
customers' ability to forecast orders accurately and relatively lengthy
manufacturing cycles. Because of this extreme complexity in the Company's
business, no assurance can be given that the Company will achieve a match of
inventory on hand, production units, and shippable orders sufficient to realize
quarterly revenue goals.

        In addition, in certain markets where end-user demand may be
particularly volatile and difficult to predict, for example notebook computers
and telephones, some Maxim customers place orders that require Maxim to
manufacture product and have it available for shipment even though the customer
is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the
product so manufactured. At any given time this situation could affect a portion
of the Company's 90 day backlog. As a result, in any quarterly fiscal period,
the Company is subject to the risk of cancellation of orders leading to a sharp
fall-off of sales and backlog. Further, those orders may be for products that
meet the customer's unique requirements so that those cancelled orders would, in
addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products and consequent inventory
write-offs. Because of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products
subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be
substantial. The Company routinely estimates inventory reserves required for
such product. Actual results may differ from these reserve estimates, and such
differences may be material to the financial statements.


Dependence on New Products and Process Technologies

        The Company's future success will continue to depend on its continued
ability to introduce new products and to develop new process technologies.
Semiconductor design and process technology are subject to rapid technological
change, requiring a high level of expenditures for research and development.
Design and process development for the analog portion of the market in which the
Company participates are particularly challenging. The success of new product
introductions is dependent on several factors, including proper new product
selection, timely product introduction, achievement of acceptable production
yields, and market acceptance. From time to time, Maxim has not fully achieved
its new product introduction and process development goals. There can be no
assurance that the Company will successfully develop or implement new process
technologies or that new products will be introduced on a timely basis or
receive substantial market acceptance.

        In addition, the Company's growth is dependent on its continued ability
to penetrate new markets where the Company has limited experience and
competition is intense. There can be no assurance that the markets being served
by the Company will continue to grow (in fact, it is natural that older markets
do saturate and decline); that the Company's existing and new products will meet
the requirements of such markets; that the Company's products will achieve
customer



                                       13
<PAGE>   14

acceptance in such markets; that competitors will not force prices to an
unacceptably low level or take market share from the Company; or that the
Company can achieve or maintain profit in these markets.

Manufacturing Risks

        The fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise
process. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment,
difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer
manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage, or
other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or
numerous die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. The Company has from time to
time experienced lower-than-expected production yields which have delayed
product shipments and adversely affected gross margins. There can be no
assurance that the Company will not experience a decrease in manufacturing
yields or that the Company will be able to maintain acceptable manufacturing
yields in the future.

        The number of shippable die per wafer for a given product is critical to
the Company's results of operations. To the extent the Company does not achieve
acceptable manufacturing yields or experiences delays in its wafer fabrication,
assembly or final test operations, its results of operations could be adversely
affected. During periods of decreased demand, fixed wafer fabrication costs
could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, gross
margins, and results of operations.

        The Company is currently in the process of expanding its wafer
manufacturing capacity at its existing wafer manufacturing facilities in order
to meet increased customer demand for its products. Should the Company be
unsuccessful in completing this expansion on time or should customer demand
decrease and the Company no longer need the additional capacity, the Company's
financial position and results of operation could be adversely impacted.

        The Company manufactures over 95% of its wafer production requirements
internally. Given the nature of the Company's products, it would be difficult to
arrange for independent manufacturing facilities to supply such products. Any
prolonged inability to utilize one of the Company's manufacturing facilities as
a result of fire, natural disaster, or otherwise, would have a material adverse
effect on the Company's results of operations.

Competition

        The Company experiences intense competition from a number of companies,
some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing
resources than the Company and some of which have greater technical resources
than the Company and have intellectual property rights to which the Company is
not privy. To the extent that the Company's proprietary products become more
successful, competitors will offer second source products for some of those
products, possibly causing some erosion of profit margins. Although foreign
manufacturers have not played a major role in the markets from which the Company
currently derives the bulk of its revenue, some possess the necessary technical
and financial capabilities to participate in these markets, and there can be no
assurance that significant foreign competition will not develop in the future.
See



                                       14
<PAGE>   15

"Business-Competition."

Dependence on Independent Distributors and Sales Representatives

        A significant portion of the Company's sales is realized through
independent electronics distributors and independent sales representatives that
are not under the control of the Company. These independent sales organizations
generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could
reduce their sales efforts applied to the Company's products or terminate their
representation of the Company. Payment terms for foreign distributors are
substantially longer, either according to contract or by practice, than for U.S.
customers. The inability to collect open accounts could adversely affect the
Company's results of operation. In fiscal 1999, the Company initiated its own
distribution activities in the U.S.. It is uncertain how the Company's
independent distributors will react to this change. Termination of a significant
distributor, whether at the Company's or the distributor's initiative, could be
disruptive to the Company's current business. If the Company were unable to find
suitable replacements, terminations by significant distributors or
representatives could have a material adverse impact on the Company. In Europe,
this risk is reduced as Maxim distributes a significant percentage of its own
product. See "Business-Sales and Marketing."

Dependence on Independent Foundries, Subcontractors, and Philippines Test
Facility

        Although the Company has an internal capability to fabricate most of its
wafers, Maxim remains dependent on outside silicon foundries for a small but
important portion of its wafer fabrication. None of the foundries currently used
by Maxim is affiliated with Maxim. As is typical in the semiconductor industry,
from time to time the Company has experienced disruptions in the supply of
processed wafers from these foundries due to quality problems, failure to
achieve satisfactory electrical yields, and capacity limitations. Procurement
from foundries is done by purchase order and long-term contracts. If these
foundries are unable or unwilling to produce adequate supplies of processed
wafers conforming to the Company's quality standards, the Company's business and
relationships with its customers for the limited quantities of products produced
by these foundries would be adversely affected. Finding alternate sources of
supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products would not be
economically feasible. Less than 5% of the Company's wafer fabrication is
performed by foundries for which second sourcing is not possible.

        Maxim relies on subcontractors located in the Philippines, Malaysia,
Thailand, and South Korea to separate wafers into individual integrated circuits
and package them. The Company performs final testing for almost all of its
products at a facility owned by the Company in the Philippines. In the past,
South Korea and the Philippines have experienced political disorders, labor
disruptions, and natural disasters. Although the Company has been affected by
these problems, none has materially affected the Company's revenues or costs to
date. However, similar problems in the future or more aggravated consequences of
current problems, could affect deliveries to Maxim of assembled, tested product,
possibly resulting in substantial delayed or lost sales and/or increased
expense. Even if the planned Thailand test facility is successfully completed
and begins operations as planned, it would not provide sufficient capacity to
make up for a significant disruption in the Philippine test facility.See
"Business-Manufacturing."



                                       15
<PAGE>   16

Availability of Materials, Supplies, and Subcontract Services

        Over the past few years, the semiconductor industry has experienced a
very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide. As a
result of increasing demands from semiconductor manufacturers, availability of
certain basic materials and supplies, such as polysilicon, silicon wafers, lead
frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth
and ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, have
from time to time, over the past few years, been in short supply and may be
expected to come into short supply again if overall industry demand increases.
Maxim devotes continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required
materials, supplies, and subcontract services. However, Maxim does not have
long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies, and
services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or
production constraints on suppliers that could have materially adverse effects
on Maxim's ability to achieve its planned production.

        In addition, suppliers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment are
sometimes unable to deliver test and/or fabrication equipment to a schedule that
meets the Company's requirements. Delays in delivery of equipment needed for
planned growth could adversely affect the Company's ability to achieve its
manufacturing and revenue plan in the future.

Protection of Proprietary Information

        The Company relies primarily upon know-how, rather than on patents, to
develop and maintain its competitive position. There can be no assurance that
others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer the
Company's products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which the Company
relies will be adequate to protect its interests. Other companies have obtained
patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and the
Company might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be
precluded from making and selling the infringing products. There can be no
assurance that Maxim would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon
commercially reasonable terms. See "Business-Patents, Licenses, and Other
Intellectual Property Rights," and "Risk Factors-Intellectual Property
Litigation and Claims."

Intellectual Property Litigation and Claims

        The Company is subject to various legal proceedings (See Item 3, Legal
Proceedings) and other similar claims that involve possible infringement of
patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, from
time to time, the Company receives notices that its products or processes may be
infringing the intellectual property rights of others. See "Business-Patents,
Licenses, and Other Intellectual Property Rights."

        If one or more of the Company's products or processes were determined to
infringe any such intellectual property rights, the Company might be enjoined by
a court from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. The
Company would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights
and/or to reengineer the Company's products or processes in such a way as to
avoid the alleged infringement. In any of those cases, there can be no assurance



                                       16
<PAGE>   17

that the Company would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially
reasonable terms or that the Company would be able to reengineer its products or
processes to avoid infringement. An adverse result in litigation arising from
such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material
portion of the Company's products, a reduction or the elimination of the value
of related inventories, and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for
damages related to past sales.


Foreign Trade and Currency Exchange

        Many of the materials and manufacturing steps in the Company's products
are supplied by foreign companies or by the Company's operations abroad, such as
its test operations in the Philippines. Approximately 57% of the Company's net
revenues in fiscal 2000 were from foreign customers. Accordingly, both
manufacturing and sales of the Company's products may be adversely affected by
political or economic conditions abroad. In addition, various forms of
protectionist trade legislation have been proposed in the United States and
certain foreign countries. A change in current tariff structures or other trade
policies could adversely affect the Company's foreign manufacturing or marketing
strategies. Currency exchange fluctuations could also increase the cost of
components manufactured abroad and the cost of the Company's products to foreign
customers or decrease the costs of products from the Company's foreign
competitors. See "Business-Manufacturing" and "Business-Sales and Marketing."

Dependence on Key Personnel

        The Company's success depends to a significant extent upon the continued
service of its president, John F. Gifford, its other executive officers, and key
management and technical personnel, particularly its experienced engineers, and
on its ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel.

        The Company does not maintain any key person life insurance policy on
any such person. The competition for such employees is very intense. The loss of
the services of Mr. Gifford or several of the Company's executive officers could
have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, there could be a
material adverse effect on the Company should the turnover rates for engineers
and other key personnel increase significantly or should the Company be unable
to continue to attract qualified personnel.
