Item 1.  Business 

Business Overview 

      ON Semiconductor Corporation (“ON Semiconductor” or “the Company”) is a global supplier of high-performance broadband and power management integrated circuits and standard semiconductors used in numerous advanced devices ranging from high-speed fiber optic networking equipment to the precise power management functions found in today’s advanced portable electronics. Our technology portfolio is lead by high-speed digital and mixed signal silicon critical to today’s technology solutions requiring speed, capacity and throughput. Our analog technology product portfolio is critical in serving power management needs for portable electronics and access to today’s pervasively connected world. 

      Our products provide high-performance clock management and data flow management for precision computing and communications systems, and power management for distributing and monitoring the supply of power to the different elements within virtually every electronic device. The principal end-user markets for our products are networking and computing, wireless communications, consumer electronics, automotive electronics and industrial electronics. Applications for our products in these markets include routers and other advanced networking equipment, cellular telephones and portable electronic, industrial automation and control systems. 

      We have three principal product lines: broadband and advanced logic (application specific standard products, communication integrated circuits, clocks, translators and drivers) power management and standard analog (amplifiers, voltage, interfaces, references and comparators); and standard semiconductors. 

      We sell our products to customers around the world, including original equipment manufacturers such as Advantest, Agilent, Alcatel, Cisco Systems, Huawei, Lucent, Nortel Networks, Nokia, Sony and Sun Microsystems, electronic manufacturing service providers such as Celestica, Flextronics, SCI and Solectron, and distributors such as Arrow and Avnet. We have design operations in Phoenix and Chandler, Arizona; East Greenwich, Rhode Island; Irvine, California; Grenoble and Toulouse France; Rozov, Czech Republic; Tokyo and Aizu, Japan; and Hong Kong, China. We operate manufacturing facilities in Arizona and Rhode Island in the United States, China, the Czech Republic, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Philippines and Slovakia, directly or through joint ventures. 

      Immediately prior to our August 4, 1999 recapitalization (the “Recapitalization”), we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Motorola, Inc. (“Motorola”). We held and continue to hold, through direct and indirect subsidiaries, substantially all of the assets and operations of the Semiconductor Components Group of Motorola’s Semiconductor Products Sector (“SCG”). As part of the Recapitalization, an affiliate of Texas Pacific Group purchased a portion of our common stock from Motorola for $337.5 million, and we redeemed common stock held by Motorola for a total of approximately $952 million. As a result, immediately subsequent to the Recapitalization, Texas Pacific Group’s affiliate owned approximately 91%, and Motorola owned approximately 9%, of our voting common stock. To finance a portion of the Recapitalization, Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC, our primary domestic operating subsidiary, borrowed $740.5 million under senior secured bank facilities, $91 million through a junior subordinated note to Motorola and $400 million through senior subordinated notes that were coissued by the Company. We also issued mandatorily redeemable preferred stock with a total initial liquidation preference of $209 million to Motorola and Texas Pacific Group’s affiliate. Because Texas Pacific Group’s affiliate did not acquire substantially all of SCG’s common stock, the basis of SCG’s assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes was not impacted by our Recapitalization. At the time of the Recapitalization, Motorola agreed to provide us with transition and manufacturing services in order to facilitate our transition to a stand-alone company independent of Motorola. 

      On April 3, 2000, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Cherry Semiconductor Corporation (“Cherry”) for approximately $253.2 million in cash (including acquisition related costs), which we financed with cash on hand and borrowings of $220.0 million under our senior secured bank facilities. Cherry, which we 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

have renamed Semiconductor Components Industries of Rhode Island, Inc., designs and manufactures analog and mixed signal integrated circuits for the power management and automotive markets. 
      On May 3, 2000, we completed the initial public offering (“IPO”) of our common stock, selling 34.5 million shares with an issue price of $16 per share. Net proceeds from the IPO (after deducting issuance costs) were approximately $514.8 million. The net proceeds were used to redeem all outstanding preferred stock (including accrued dividends), redeem a portion of the senior subordinated notes and prepay a portion of the loans outstanding under the senior bank facilities. In connection with this debt prepayment, we incurred prepayment penalties and redemption premiums of $17.3 million and wrote off $11.9 million of debt issuance costs. These amounts, totaling $29.2 million ($17.5 million or $0.11 per share, net of income taxes), have been classified as an extraordinary loss in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income for 2000. 

Products and Technology 

      The following table provides information regarding our primary product lines: 

              
  Broadband and  Power Management and   
  Advanced Logic  Standard Analog  Standard Semiconductors 
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Approximate 2000 net product revenues   $312 million   $533 million   $1,167 million 
  
 
 
 
 
Primary product function   Interfacing functions, such as interconnecting and routing (moving) electronic signals within electronic systems.   Power control and Interfacing functions in Portable and high-power Applications.   Power control and power protection functions in a broad range of products. 
  
 
 
 
 
Sample applications   Fast routing of signals used in communication and networking switches, high-end servers, high-performance work stations, highly dense memory modules, storage networks and precision measurement test systems.   Intelligent power management and battery protection in portable applications such as pagers and portable computers.   Power management for computers, televisions, audio equipment, fluorescent lights, monitors and automotive control systems. 
  
 
 
 
 
Types of product   Mixed-signal and emitter- coupled logic.   Amplifiers, voltage references, interfaces, comparators and mixed signal.   Bipolar and MOS gated power transistors, small signal transistors, zeners, thyristors, rectifiers, standard logic integrated circuits. 
  
 
 
 
 
Representative original equipment manufacturers customers and end users   Alcatel
Cisco Systems
Ericsson
Fujitsu
Hewlett-Packard
Lucent Technologies
Motorola
Nokia
Nortel Networks
Siemens   Alcatel
Delphi
Ericsson
Intel
Motorola
Nokia
Philips
Siemens
Sony
Visteon   DaimlerChrysler
Delphi
Delta
Motorola
Nokia
Philips
Seagate
Siemens
Valeo
Visteon 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      Broadband Products. ON Semiconductor is a global leader in creating high-performance integrated circuit solutions critical to today’s broadband applications. We design and deliver application-specific integrated circuits using advanced technologies that address the high-performance needs of wireless, networking and data management. Our extensive broadband portfolio, led by our ECLinPS family, are designed into state-of-the-art systems such as communication and networking switches, high-end servers, high-performance work stations, highly dense memory modules, storage networks and precision measurement test systems. We enable application specific designs for today’s advanced networks, including Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM), Enterprise Networks, Storage Area Networks (SAN) and Internet Protocol (IP) applications. 

      Power Management Products and Standard Analog. One of the fastest growing segments within the analog market is power management. ON Semiconductor is one of the largest suppliers of power management analog products. We have a complete power management portfolio in the six major product categories, which include DC/ DC regulators, AC/ DC off-line regulators, linear regulators, PWM/ PFM controllers, PFC pre-regulators and battery charging/management integrated circuits. Our products are engineered and manufactured to meet the power management needs of high-performance applications to customers in the wireless, automotive and computing markets. 

      Standard Semiconductor Products. ON Semiconductor offers an extensive line of standard semiconductors, including standard logic integrated circuits and nearly all discrete semiconductors other than sensors, optoelectronics, RF and microwave power transistors. These products are found in nearly every electronic product, including computers, cellular phones, mass storage devices, televisions, radios, VCRs, DVD players and pagers. 

Customers 

      Our customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing service providers and preferred distributors. Our products are ultimately purchased by end users for use in a variety of markets, including networking and computing, wireless communications, consumer electronics, automotive electronics and industrial. Sales to Arrow, Avnet and Motorola accounted for approximately 12%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenue during 2000, compared to 9%, 10% and 16%, respectively, of our total revenue for the period from August 4, 1999 to December 31, 1999. 

      Original Equipment Manufacturers. Direct sales to original equipment manufacturers accounted for approximately 43% of our net product revenues in 2000 and approximately 48% of our net product revenues in 1999. These customers include a variety of companies in the electronics industry, such as Agilent, Alcatel, Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, Lucent Technologies, Motorola, Nortel Networks, Philips, Siemens and Sony, and automotive manufacturers, such as DaimlerChrysler, Delphi and Visteon. We intend to focus on three types of original equipment manufacturers: multi-nationals, selected regional accounts and target market customers. We expect large multi-nationals and selected regional accounts, which are significant in specific markets, to be our core original equipment manufacturer customers. The target market customers in the communications, power management and broadband markets are original equipment manufacturers that are on the leading edge of specific technologies and provide direction for technology and new product development. We expect overall sales to original equipment manufacturers to continue to decline as a percentage of sales as these customers increasingly purchase component products through distributors or outsource their manufacturing to electronic manufacturing service providers. Distributors and electronic manufacturing service providers are representing a larger share of the market in general, and we expect these customers to represent a larger percentage of our total addressable market in the future. We do not anticipate any significant effect on our overall sales from this shift in the customer base. 

      Distributors. Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 45% of our net product revenues in 2000 and approximately 44% of our net product revenues in 1999. Our distributors, which include Arrow, Avnet and All American, resell to mid-sized and smaller original equipment manufacturers and to electronic manufacturing service providers and other companies. They expect larger original equipment manufacturers to become an increasingly important category of distributors’ direct customers. 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      Electronic Manufacturing Service Providers. Direct sales to electronic manufacturing service providers accounted for approximately 12% of our net product revenues in 2000 and approximately 8% of our net product revenues in 1999. Our largest electronic manufacturing service customers are Celestica, Delta Electronics, Flextronics, Solectron and SCI. These customers are manufacturers who typically provide contract manufacturing services for original equipment manufacturers. Originally, these companies were involved primarily in the assembly of printed circuit boards, but they now typically provide design, supply management and manufacturing solutions. Many original equipment manufacturers now outsource a large part of their manufacturing to electronic manufacturing service providers in order to focus on their core competencies. We are pursuing a number of strategies to service this increasingly important marketplace, including the use of the Internet not only for order and payment processing but also to promote more immediate communication among our sales and support staff and these customers. 

Manufacturing Operations 

      We operate our manufacturing facilities either directly or through joint ventures. Four of these are front-end wafer facilities located in Japan, Slovakia and the United States; four are back-end assembly and test facilities located in China, Malaysia and the Philippines; and three are integrated front-end and back-end facilities located in the Czech Republic, Malaysia and Mexico. In addition to these manufacturing and assembly operations, our Terosil facility in Roznov, Czech Republic, manufactures raw wafers that are used by a number of our facilities. We also use third-party contract manufacturers other than our joint ventures. Our agreements with these contract manufacturers typically require them to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts, and in some cases require longer-term commitments in the early stages of the relationship. 

      The table below sets forth information with respect to the manufacturing facilities we operate either directly or through our joint ventures, and the products produced at these facilities. 

                
Location  Products  Size 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    (sq. ft.) 
 
 
 
 
Integrated Facilities:             
 
 
 
 
  Roznov, Czech Republic (Tesla joint venture)   Power Management and Standard Analog     321,000   
 
 
 
 
  Seremban, Malaysia   Standard semiconductors     90,000   
 
 
 
 
  Guadalajara, Mexico   Standard semiconductors     254,000   
 
 
 
 
Front-end Facilities:             
 
 
 
 
  Phoenix, Arizona   Broadband and Advanced Logic, Standard semiconductors     239,000   
 
 
 
 
  Aizu, Japan   Power Management and Standard Analog, Standard semiconductors     256,000   
 
 
 
 
  Piestany, Slovakia   Standard semiconductors     915,000   
 
 
 
 
  East Greenwich, Rhode Island   Power Management and Standard Analog     209,000   
 
 
 
 
Back-end Facilities:             
 
 
 
 
  Leshan, China (Leshan joint venture)   Standard semiconductors     264,000   
 
 
 
 
  Seremban, Malaysia (joint venture with Philips)   Standard semiconductors     514,000   
 
 
 
 
  Seremban, Malaysia   Standard semiconductors     239,000   
 
 
 
 
  Carmona, Philippines   All     180,000   
 
 
 
 
Other Facilities:             
 
 
 
 
  Roznov, Czech Republic (Terosil joint venture)   Raw wafers     69,000   

      We have entered into an agreement with Motorola to continue to provide manufacturing services to each other for limited periods of time following our Recapitalization. We negotiated fixed prices with Motorola for the services covered by these agreements to approximate each party’s cost of providing the services. Subject to 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

our right to cancel upon six months written notice, we have minimum commitments to purchase manufacturing services from Motorola of approximately $56 million, $45 million and $44 million in 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively. Motorola has no minimum purchase commitments remaining. 
      A portion of our manufacturing activity is conducted through our joint ventures in the Czech Republic, China and Malaysia. In 2000, purchases from the joint ventures represented approximately $193 million of our cost of sales. 

      In the Czech Republic, we operate two joint ventures, Tesla and Terosil. These joint ventures are publicly traded Czech companies in which we currently directly own a 78.8% and 75.2% equity interest, respectively. The Tesla joint venture operates an integrated front-end manufacturing and back-end assembly facility. The Terosil joint venture manufactures raw wafers that are used by a number of our facilities. We have committed to purchase all of the output of the Tesla joint venture or, to the extent we do not do so, pay for its fixed and semi-fixed costs of production. We also have fixed minimum commitments for the Terosil joint venture. In 2000, we purchased the total output of Tesla and 77% of the sales of Terosil, which exceeded our minimum commitment. These commitments expire in February 2004. 

      In Leshan, China, we operate one joint venture, Leshan-Phoenix Semiconductor Company Ltd. We beneficially own a majority of the outstanding equity interests of the Leshan joint venture, and the remainder is owned by Leshan Radio Company Ltd. Due to certain rights held by the minority shareholder, we do not exercise control over this entity and therefore, account for it using the equity method of accounting for investments. The Leshan joint venture operates a back-end manufacturing facility. We have committed to purchase a percentage of the total output commensurate with our ownership stake, and in 2000 actually purchased 75% of the total sales of Leshan. The Leshan joint venture expires in 2045. 

      In Seremban, Malaysia, we have a 50% investment in Semiconductor Miniatures Products Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., (“SMP”) a joint venture with Philips Semiconductors International B.V. SMP operates a back-end assembly facility. The terms of the joint venture agreement provide Philips with the right to purchase our interest, between January 2001 and July 2002. On February 1, 2001, Philips exercised its purchase right, acquiring full ownership of this joint venture. We do not expect the acquisition by Philips to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 

      Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, copper lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. We have no agreements with any of our suppliers that impose minimum or continuing supply obligations and we obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that supplies of the raw materials used by us are currently available, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

      Our global sales and marketing organization serves customers in 37 countries. We operate regional headquarters Aylesbury, U.K., Phoenix, Arizona, and Hong Kong, China. We support our customers through logistics organizations, and just-in-time warehouses. Global and regional distribution partners further support our customer’s needs for quick response and service. We offer efficient, cost-effective Internet-based applications support from our laboratories in the Czech Republic, China and the United States. Through on-line connectivity, applications developed in one region of the world are now instantaneously available to all other regions. 

      Motorola agreed to continue to provide us with worldwide shipping and freight services for a period of up to three years following our Recapitalization. The cost allocated to us by Motorola for these services is based our sales as a percentage of total Motorola Semiconductor Products Sector plus ON Semiconductor sales. Because our products are sold in higher volumes than other Motorola products for comparable sales, this allocation may result in better prices than we could obtain from third parties. However, we believe we will be able to replace these services on comparable terms at the expiration of this agreement because of increased 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

efficiencies resulting from a shipping and freight organization dedicated to our products and ongoing factory consolidations (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements at Exhibit 13 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the restructuring programs in 1999 and 2000 at manufacturing facilities in Mesa, Arizona and Guadalajara, Mexico). 
Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Other Intellectual Property Rights 

      We own rights to a number of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property directly related to and important to our business. In connection with our Recapitalization, Motorola also granted rights and licenses to certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property necessary for us to manufacture, market and sell our existing products and those contemplated in its long range plans. Presently, we own more than 740 U.S. and foreign patents, 57 trademarks and intellectual property rights in as many as 39 semiconductor fabrication processes. Our policy is to protect our products and processes by asserting our intellectual property rights where appropriate and prudent and by obtaining patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights used in connection with our business when practicable and appropriate. 

      Under an intellectual property agreement that we entered into with Motorola as part of our Recapitalization, Motorola assigned approximately 280 U.S. patents and patent applications, approximately 280 foreign patents and patent applications, rights to over 50 trademarks (not including the Motorola name) previously used in connection with our products, rights in know-how relating to at least 39 semiconductor fabrication processes and rights in specified copyrightable materials. In addition, Motorola licensed on a non-exclusive, royalty-free basis other patent, trademark, copyright and know-how rights used in connection with our existing products and products contemplated in our long-range plans. We have perpetual, royalty-free, worldwide rights under Motorola’s patent portfolio and other intellectual property, existing as of the date of our Recapitalization or created in the ensuing five years (the five-year period existing only with respect to patents), as necessary to manufacture, market, and sell our existing and long range plan product lines. Additionally, Motorola provided us with a limited indemnity umbrella to protect us from some infringement claims by third parties who have granted Motorola licenses as of the date of our Recapitalization, which will assist us in developing our own patent position and licensing program. We believe that we have the right to use all Motorola-owned technology used in connection with the products we currently offer. 

      We market our products under the ON Semiconductor™ name. For one year after our Recapitalization, we retained the limited ability to use the Motorola trade name in connection with the sale, distribution and advertisement of some products we offer. If, however, the removal of the Motorola trade name from any of these products would require the product to be requalified by any of our customers, then we may continue to use the Motorola trade name, for up to two years after our Recapitalization, to allow us to continue selling the product pending its requalification. In addition, for two years after our Recapitalization, we have the ability to utilize the transition statement “formerly a division of Motorola” in connection with the sale, distribution and advertisement of some products we offer. 

Seasonality 

      Historically, our revenues have been affected by the seasonal trends of the semiconductor and related industries. As a result of these trends, we typically experienced sales increases in the first two quarters of the year and relatively flat sales levels in the third and fourth quarters. However, over the past three years, various events have disrupted this pattern. In 1998, third quarter revenues declined, primarily as a result of the Asian economic crisis. In 1999, third and fourth quarter revenues increased due to the continuing recovery in the semiconductor market. In 2000, fourth quarter revenues declined due slowing demand in the semiconductor market. 

Backlog 

      Our trade sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders that are generally booked up to 26 weeks in advance of delivery. Generally, prices and quantities are fixed at the time of booking. Backlog as of a given date consists of existing orders and estimated orders based on customer forecasts, in each case scheduled to be shipped over the 13-week period following such date. Backlog is influenced by several factors 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. Backlog on December 31, 2000 was approximately $402 million compared to approximately $400 million on December 31, 1999. See Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K, “Recent Developments” on page 10 of the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders. 
      In the semiconductor industry, backlog quantities and shipment schedules under outstanding purchase orders are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs. Agreements calling for the sale of specific quantities at specific prices are, typically, contractually subject to price or quantity revisions and are, as a matter of industry practice, often not enforced. Therefore, we believe that a significant portion of our order backlog may be cancelable. For these reasons, the amount of backlog as of any particular date may not be an accurate indicator of future results. 

      We sell products to key customers pursuant to contracts that are typically annual fixed-price agreements subject, in some cases, to quarterly negotiations. These contracts allow us to schedule production capacity in advance and allow the customers to manage their inventory levels consistent with just-in-time principles while shortening the cycle times required to produce ordered product. However, these contracts are typically amended to reflect changes in prices and customer demands. 

Competition 

      The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for general purpose semiconductor products like ours, is highly competitive. Although only a few companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies, as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us with which to pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products and are better able to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. Significant competitors in the broadband and advanced logic market include AMCC, Micrel and Vitesse. Significant competitors in the power management and standard analog market include Analog Devices, Fairchild, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, National Semiconductor, ST Microelectronics and Texas Instruments. Significant competitors in the standard semiconductor product market include Fairchild, International Rectifier, Philips, Rohm, ST Microelectronics, Texas Instruments and Toshiba. The semiconductor components industry has also been undergoing significant restructuring and consolidations that could adversely affect our competitiveness. 

Government Regulation 

      Our manufacturing operations are subject to environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include those relating to the emissions and discharges into the air and water; the management and disposal of hazardous substances; the release of hazardous substances into the environment at or from our facilities and at other sites; and the investigation and remediation of resulting contamination. 

      Our manufacturing facility in Phoenix, Arizona is located on property that is a “Superfund” site, a property listed on the National Priorities List and subject to clean-up activities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Motorola is actively involved in the cleanup of on-site solvent contaminated soil and groundwater and off-site contaminated groundwater pursuant to consent decrees with the State of Arizona. Motorola has retained responsibility for this contamination, and has agreed to indemnify us with respect to remediation costs and other costs or liabilities related to this matter. 

      The manufacturing facilities in Slovakia and those of the joint ventures in the Czech Republic have ongoing remediation projects to respond to releases of hazardous substances that occurred during the years that these facilities were operated by government-owned entities. In each case, these remediation projects consist primarily of monitoring groundwater wells located on-site and off-site with additional action plans developed to respond in the event activity levels are exceeded at each of the respective locations. The governments of the Czech Republic and Slovakia have agreed to indemnify us and the joint ventures, subject 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

to specified limitations, the respective joint ventures for remediation costs associated with this historical contamination. Based upon the information available, we do not believe that total future remediation costs to us will be material. 
      We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We do not expect the cost of compliance with existing environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and liability for currently known environmental conditions, to have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. It is possible, however, that future developments, including changes in laws and regulations, government policies, customer specification, personnel and physical property conditions, including currently undiscovered contamination, could lead to material costs. 

Employees 

      We employ approximately 14,900 people worldwide, consisting of approximately 10,700 people employed directly and approximately 4,200 people employed through our joint ventures, most of whom are engaged in manufacturing services. We do not currently have any collective bargaining arrangements with our employees, except for those arrangements, such as works councils, that are obligatory for all employees or all employers in a particular industry under applicable foreign law. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

      See Part III, Item 10 of this report for information concerning executive officers. 

Geographical Information 

      For certain geographic operating information, see Note 17, “Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Exhibit 13 on this Form 10K. 

      In addition to the above for this Item 1. Business, see pages 4 to 8 of the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders included in Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and incorporated by reference herein. 
