ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

   The Company is a vertically-integrated, worldwide provider of devices,
subsystems and end-products based on optoelectronic technology. The Company
designs and manufactures optoelectronic devices and value-added subsystems for
original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") for use in a broad range of
applications, including security, medical diagnostics, fiber optics,
telecommunications, gaming, office automation, aerospace and defense
electronics, computer peripherals and industrial automation. In addition, the
Company utilizes its optoelectronic technology and design capabilities to
manufacture security and inspection products that it markets worldwide to end
users under the "Rapiscan," "Secure" and "Metor" brand names. These products
are used to inspect people, baggage, cargo and other objects for weapons,
explosives, drugs and other contraband. In the medical field, the Company
manufactures and sells bone densitometers, which are used to provide bone loss
measurements in the diagnosis of osteoporosis. The Company also manufactures
and sells saturation of arterial hemoglobin ("SpO\\2\\") monitors and sensors
under the trade names Digital Dolphin(TM) and Dolphin 2000(TM). Digital
Dolphin(TM) model 2100 SpO\\2\\ monitors have received 510[k] approval for
sale in the United States.

   In fiscal 2001, revenues from the sale of optoelectronic devices and
subsystems and medical imaging systems amounted to $59.3 million, or
approximately 53.4% of the Company's revenues, while revenues from sales of
security and inspection products amounted to $51.8 million, or approximately
46.6% of the Company's revenues. Further information concerning market
segments is available in Note 14 to the Company's financial statements, at
page F-25.

   Unless the context otherwise requires, the term the "Company" as used
herein includes OSI Systems, Inc., a California corporation, and its
subsidiaries.

Industry Overview

   The Company's optoelectronic devices and subsystems are designed and
manufactured primarily for sale to OEMs, while the Company's security products
and medical imaging and some monitoring systems are sold to end-users.

   Optoelectronic Devices and Subsystems. Optoelectronic devices consist of
both active components, such as silicon photodiodes that sense light of
varying wavelengths and convert the light detected into electronic signals,
and passive components, such as lenses, prisms, filters and mirrors. An
optoelectronic subsystem typically consists of one or more optoelectronic
devices that are combined with other electronic components for integration
into an end-product. Optoelectronic devices and subsystems, and medical
imaging systems, are used for a wide variety of applications ranging from
simple functions, such as the detection of paper in the print path of a laser
printer, to complex monitoring, measurement or positioning functions, such as
in industrial robotics where the subsystem is used to detect the exact
position, motion or size of another object. Because optoelectronic devices and
subsystems can be used in a wide variety of measurement, control and
monitoring applications, optoelectronics may be used in a broad array of
industrial applications. Optoelectronic devices also are key components in the
telecommunications and fiber optics market.

   The Company believes that in recent years advances in technology and
reductions in the cost of key components of optoelectronic systems, including
computer processing power and memory, have broadened the market by enabling
the use of optoelectronic devices in a greater number of applications. In
addition, the Company believes that there is a trend among OEMs to
increasingly outsource the design and manufacture of optoelectronic subsystems
to fully integrated, independent manufacturers who may have greater
specialization, broader expertise, and the ability and flexibility to respond
in shorter time periods than the OEM could accomplish in-house. The Company
believes that its high level of vertical integration, substantial engineering
resources, expertise in the use and application of optoelectronic technology,
and low-cost international manufacturing operations enable it to compete in
the market for optoelectronic devices and subsystems.

                                       1
<PAGE>

   Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, RapiTec, Inc., the Company has
penetrated the worldwide weapons simulation market through system engineering,
product development, rapid prototyping, and volume manufacturing for state-of-
the-art, laser-based training systems for the defense industry.

   The Company has developed high-speed silicon photodiodes for use in fiber
optic systems such as Gigabit Ethernet and Fiber Channel systems. These
products can replace Gallium Arsenide products at about half the cost. The
Company has developed a silicon-based fiber optic detector which can achieve a
2.5 Gigabit/second data rate using 3.3 volts bias voltage. Through a wholly-
owned subsidiary, OSI Fibercomm, Inc., the Company has launched a new family
of Indium Gallium Arsenide photodetectors for use in a variety of network
applications and long-haul communications applications, together with high-
speed silicon-based detectors combined with transimpedence amplifiers ("TIA").

   Medical Diagnostic and Imaging Systems. The Company has expanded into
medical diagnostic and imaging systems. The Company manufactures and
distributes the DTX 200 (DEXACARE), a U.S. Food & Drug Administration ("FDA")-
approved forearm DEXA (Dual Energy X-Ray) densitometer, which is used to
diagnose osteoporosis as well as to provide follow-up bone density
measurements. The Company also produces the ultrasound DTU-One, the first
commercially available ultrasound scanner using imaging capability for the
diagnosis of osteoporosis. In September, 2000, the Company received pre-market
approval ("PMA") from the FDA to sell the DTU-One in the United States.

   The Company also acquired majority ownership of TFT Medical, Inc., which
has been renamed "OSI Medical, Inc." ("OSI Medical"), which is currently
developing new-generation pulse oximeter instruments and probes for use in the
medical field. The Company also has five-year warrants (subject to earlier
termination upon the occurrence of certain events) to acquire up to 1,110,000
additional OSI Medical shares at a purchase price of $1.35 per share. The
warrants first became exercisable on April 12, 2001. In August 2000, the
Company acquired all the assets of Square One Inc., which develops and
manufactures infrared-based patient monitoring medical subsystems.

   The Company presently manufactures a number of medical devices through
several of its subsidiaries, some of which are described above, and has
recently formed a new subsidiary, Dolphin Medical, Inc., for the purpose of
consolidating its various medical devices into a single subsidiary.

   Security and Inspection Products. A variety of products are currently used
worldwide in security and inspection applications. These products include
single energy x-ray equipment, dual energy x-ray equipment, metal detectors,
trace detection systems that detect particulate and chemical traces of
explosive materials, computer tomography ("CT"), scanners and x-ray machines
employing backscatter detection technology. To date, most of these products
have been deployed primarily at commercial airports worldwide. The Company
believes that the growth in the market for security and inspection products
will continue to be driven by the increased perception of threat fueled by
recent terrorist incidents, increased government mandates and appropriations,
and the emergence of a growing market for the non-security applications of its
products.

   In the 1970s, principally in response to civilian airline highjackings, the
U.S. Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") established security standards by
setting guidelines for the screening of carry-on baggage for weapons such as
guns and knives. These standards were later mandated by the United Nations for
adoption by all of its member states. The Company believes that to date the
imposition of these standards has resulted in the installation of over 10,000
x-ray inspection systems installed in airports worldwide. Additionally, the
United Kingdom Department of Transport has required the United Kingdom's
commercial airports to deploy systems for 100% screening of international
checked baggage since the end of 1998, and the European Civil Aviation
Conference, an organization of 33 member states, has agreed to implement 100%
screening of international checked baggage in the future. In the United
States, largely in response to the explosion of Pan Am Flight 103 in December
1988, Congress enacted the Aviation Security Improvement Act of 1990 which,
among other initiatives, directed the FAA to establish and implement strict
security measures and to deploy advanced technology for the detection of
explosives. In July 1996, President Clinton formed the White House Commission

                                       2
<PAGE>

on Aviation Safety and Security (the "Gore Commission"), to review airline and
airport security and to oversee aviation safety. In response to the initial
report released by the Gore Commission, the United States enacted legislation
that includes $144 million in appropriations for the initial deployment of
advanced security and inspection technology at major U.S. airports. The U.S.
government is continuing to fund procurement of state-of-the-art detection
equipment at major U.S. airports. A portion of this funding is allocated for
TIP Ready X-ray (TRX) systems at security checkpoints throughout the nation.
The recent terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon using
hijacked airliners likely will cause a substantial increase in airport
security measures, which may result in an increase in sales of the Company's
security and inspection products.

   In April 2000, the Company was awarded a contract by the Federal Aviation
Administration ("FAA") to provide x-ray screening systems at selected airports
throughout the United States. Under the contract, the FAA has the right to
purchase up to 800 systems, for which the purchase price would be
approximately $40 million. The initial purchase under the contract was for
approximately 100 carry-on baggage x-ray screening systems, all of which were
shipped in fiscal 2001. The FAA ordered more than 200 additional systems
during fiscal 2001, some of which were shipped in fiscal 2001, and the balance
of which will be shipped in fiscal 2002.

   X-ray inspection equipment, such as that sold by the Company, is also
increasingly being used for a number of purposes not related to security.
Newer versions of x-ray inspection equipment combine x-ray inspection with
computer image enhancement capabilities and can be applied to various non-
security purposes such as the detection of narcotics, gold and currency, the
inspection of agricultural products, and the inspection of cargo by customs
officers and international shippers.

Growth Strategy

   The Company's objectives are to be a leading provider of specialized
optoelectronic products, to enhance its position in the international
inspection and detection marketplace and to leverage its expertise in the
optoelectronic technology industry by entering into new end-product markets on
a selective basis. Key elements of this strategy include:

   Leverage its Optoelectronic Design and Manufacturing Expertise to Address
New Applications. The Company believes that one of its primary competitive
strengths is its expertise in designing and manufacturing specialized
optoelectronic subsystems for its OEM customers in a cost-effective manner.
The Company currently designs and manufactures devices and subsystems for over
200 customers serving over 100 applications. The Company has developed this
expertise in the past through internal research and development efforts and
through selective acquisitions. In 1987, the Company formed Opto Sensors
(Singapore) PTE Ltd. ("OSI Singapore") to manufacture optoelectronic devices
and subsystems. In 1990, the Company acquired UDT Sensors, Inc. ("UDT
Sensors") to broaden its expertise and capabilities in developing and
manufacturing optoelectronic devices and subsystems. In 1993, the Company
acquired Rapiscan Security Products Limited ("Rapiscan U.K.") and, through
Rapiscan Security Products (U.S.A.), Inc. ("Rapiscan U.S.A.") (Rapiscan U.S.A.
and Rapiscan U.K. are sometimes collectively referred to as "Rapiscan"),
commenced its operations as a provider of security and inspection products in
the United States. Thereafter, in 1993, the Company acquired Ferson Optics,
Inc. ("Ferson Optics") for its passive optic technologies. In 1994, the
Company commenced operations of Opto Sensors (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ("OSI
Malaysia") to take advantage of low cost manufacturing. In 1997, the Company
acquired Advanced Micro Electronics AS ("AME") for AME's hybrid optoelectronic
capabilities.

   In September 1998, the Company acquired Osteometer, a Danish manufacturer
of diagnostic scanners used to detect osteoporosis. Osteometer concentrates on
the development of small, cost-optimized scanners making it possible for small
clinics to offer their patients a cost effective diagnosis of osteoporosis and
is committed to the development of scientifically and clinically validated
devices that result in accurate, precise, reliable and cost effective
diagnosis. Due to the global decline in the bone densitometer market, in
August 1999 the Company decided to close the operations of Osteometer in
Denmark, and relocate certain of these operations to the Company's U.S.
facilities. In the quarter ended September 30, 1999, the Company recorded
estimated restructuring costs of $1.9 million related to the closure of the
Osteometer facility in Denmark. These costs were

                                       3
<PAGE>

associated primarily with the termination of certain employees, commitments
and other facility closure costs. During the quarter ended March 31, 2000, the
Company completed the closure of the Osteometer facility in Denmark and the
relocation of the operations to the United States. The market for osteoporosis
diagnostic equipment is currently weak and is expected to remain so for at
least the near-term.

   In November 1998, the Company purchased the security products business of
Metorex International Oy ("Metorex Security") of Espoo, Finland. The Company
paid $4.7 million in cash, including professional fees associated with the
acquisition. In July 1999, the Company paid 4.4 million Finnish markka
(approximately $739,000), in lieu of contingent payments of up to $1.5
million, based on future sales. The acquisition of Metorex Security brought a
complete security metal detection product line to the Company. Metor brand
security archway metal detectors are among the most widely recognized such
products in the world. These metal detectors complement the x-ray screening
systems supplied by Rapiscan. Metorex Security continues to supply a large
number of systems to the U.S. Government, as well as to customers around the
world. The products include Metor 100 series archways, as well as Metor 200
series zonal archways. The Company's MetorNet(TM) product allows monitoring
and control of multisystem installations.

   In November 1998, the Company acquired all the outstanding stock of Silicon
Microstructures, Inc. ("SMI"), a silicon pressure-sensor manufacturer, from
Exar Corporation of Fremont, California. The Company paid $2.7 million in
cash, including professional fees associated with the acquisition. On March
31, 2001, the Company sold all of the outstanding stock of SMI to Elmos
Semiconductor AG of Germany for $6 million in cash. In connection with this
transaction, the Company's UDT subsidiary sold certain capital equipment to
SMI for $462,000 in cash. The sale also includes a three-year commitment from
UDT to supply four-inch silicon foundry wafers to SMI and to dedicate limited
manufacturing facilities to be used by SMI for its etching operations. The
total pre-tax gain on the transaction was approximately $3 million.

   In December 1998, the Company acquired most of the assets and assumed
certain liabilities of Corrigan Canada Ltd. ("Corrigan"), a Canadian security
products manufacturer, for approximately $476,000 in cash, including
professional fees associated with the acquisition.

   In January 1999, the Company acquired Aristo Medical Products, Inc.
("Aristo") for approximately $277,000 in cash, including professional fees
associated with the acquisition. Aristo develops and manufactures new
generation pulse oximeter probes used in the medical field.

   In August 1998, the Company invested $315,000, including professional fees
associated with the acquisition, in Square One Inc. ("Square One") for an
equity share of approximately 16%, and in August 2000, the Company acquired
substantially all of its assets for consideration of $259,000 in cash,
including professional fees associated with the acquisition, future royalties
(on which a $30,000 advance payment was made), and return of the Square One
stock held by the Company. The acquired business develops and manufactures
infrared-based patient monitoring medical subsystems.

   During fiscal 1999, the Company invested $1.0 million, including
professional fees associated with the acquisition, in OSI Medical for an
equity share of approximately 40%. OSI Medical develops new generation pulse
oximeter instruments and probes for use in the medical field. Pursuant to an
agreement entered into as of October 4, 1999 (the "OSI Medical Agreement") the
Company acquired an additional equity interest, representing approximately 16%
of the stock ownership of OSI Medical for $1.2 million, including professional
fees associated with the acquisition. During Fiscal 2001, the Company acquired
additional equity interest representing approximately 19% of the ownership of
OSI Medical for $282,000. With these additional equity investments, the
Company increased its equity share in OSI Medical to approximately 75%. On
April 12, 2000, also pursuant to the OSI Medical Agreement and in connection
with certain amounts loaned or to be loaned by the Company to OSI Medical
thereunder, the Company also acquired five-year warrants (subject to earlier
termination upon the occurrence of certain events) to acquire up to 1,110,000
additional OSI Medical shares at a purchase price of $1.35 per share. The
warrants, if fully exercised, would result in the Company's share in OSI
Medical being increased to over 78%, based upon the number of shares presently
outstanding. Also, pursuant

                                       4
<PAGE>

to the OSI Medical Agreement, the Company has an option, which expires in
December 31, 2002, to acquire all of OSI Medical.

   The Company intends to continue to build its expertise in order to address
a greater number of applications. By expanding the number of potential
applications its products may serve, the Company intends to increase its
business with existing customers and by attracting new customers.

   The Company presently manufactures a number of medical devices through
several of its subsidiaries, some of which are described above, and has
recently formed a new subsidiary, Dolphin Medical, Inc., for the purpose of
consolidating its various medical devices in a single subsidiary.

   The Company has developed high-speed silicon photodiodes for use in fiber
optic systems such as Gigabit Ethernet and Fiber Channel systems. These
products can replace Gallium Arsenide products at about half the cost. The
Company has developed a silicon-based fiber optic detector which can achieve a
2.5 Gigabit/second data rate using 3.3 volts bias voltage. Through a wholly-
owned subsidiary, OSI Fibercomm, Inc., the Company has launched a new family
of Indium Gallium Arsenide photodetectors for use in a variety of network
applications and long-haul communications applications, together with light
speed silicon-based detectors combined with transimpedence amplifiers ("TIA").

   Further Penetrate Existing Security and Inspection Markets and Expand into
Other Markets. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001, the Company
continued to expand sales of its security and inspection products beyond the
traditional focus on airports and airlines to include government buildings,
customs facilities, courthouses, school districts, departments of corrections
and businesses for their respective security and inspection needs. The Company
intends to continue to expand its sales and marketing efforts both
domestically and internationally to capitalize on opportunities in its
existing markets for new installations as well as opportunities to replace,
service and upgrade existing security installations. In addition, through
research and development and selective acquisitions, the Company intends to
enhance and expand its current product offering to better address new
applications including automatic bomb detection and cargo scanning.

   The Company believes that its strategy will enable it to take advantage of
the growth the existing markets are experiencing and to benefit from
additional growth that these new and enhanced products will provide.

   Capitalize on Vertical Integration. The Company believes that it offers
significant added value to its OEM customers by providing a full range of
vertically-integrated services including component design and customization,
subsystem concept design and application engineering, product prototyping and
development, and efficient pre-production, short-run and high volume
manufacturing. The Company believes that its vertical integration
differentiates it from many of its competitors and provides value to its OEM
customers, who can rely on the Company to be an integrated supplier of an
optoelectronic subsystem. In addition, the Company's vertical integration
provides several other advantages in both its optoelectronic devices and
subsystems and security and detection product lines. These advantages include
reduced manufacturing and delivery times, lower costs due to its access to
competitive international labor markets and direct sourcing of raw materials,
and quality control. The Company intends to continue to leverage its
vertically integrated services to create greater value for its customers in
the design and manufacture of its products. The Company believes that this
strategy better positions the Company for penetration into other end markets.

   Capitalize on Global Presence. The Company operates from locations in the
United States, Europe, Asia and Canada. The Company views its international
operations as providing an important strategic advantage over competitors in
both the optoelectronic device and subsystem market and the security and
inspection market for three primary reasons. First, international
manufacturing facilities allow the Company to take advantage of competitive
labor rates in order to be a low cost producer. Second, its international
offices strengthen its sales and marketing efforts and its ability to service
and repair its systems by providing direct access to growing foreign markets
and to its existing international customer base. Third, multiple manufacturing
locations allow the Company to reduce delivery times to its global customer
base. In the future, the Company intends to develop

                                       5
<PAGE>

new sources of manufacturing and sales capabilities to maintain and enhance
the benefits of its international presence.

   Selectively Enter New End Markets. Similar to the Company's expansion
during fiscal 1998 into optoelectronic products for medical diagnostic
applications, the Company intends to selectively enter new end markets that
complement its existing capabilities in designing, developing and
manufacturing optoelectronic devices and subsystems. The Company believes that
by manufacturing other end products which rely on the technological
capabilities of the Company, it can leverage its existing integrated design
and manufacturing infrastructure to capture greater margins and build a
significant presence in new end markets which present attractive competitive
market dynamics. The Company intends to achieve this strategy through internal
growth and through selective acquisitions of end-product manufacturers.

Products and Technology

   The Company designs, develops, manufactures and sells products based on its
core optoelectronic technology. These products range from discrete devices to
value-added subsystems to complete x-ray security and inspection products, and
medical imaging systems.

   Discrete Devices and Subsystems, and Medical Imaging
Systems. Optoelectronic devices generally consist of both active and passive
components. Active components sense light of varying wavelengths and convert
the light detected into electronic signals, whereas passive components
amplify, separate or reflect light. Active components manufactured by the
Company consist of silicon photodiodes and hybrid photodetectors. Passive
components include lenses, prisms, filters, mirrors and other precision
optical products that are used by the Company in the manufacture of its
optoelectronic products or are sold to others for use in telescopes, laser
printers, copiers, microscopes and other detection and vision equipment. The
devices manufactured by the Company are both standard products and products
customized for specific applications. Most of the devices manufactured are
incorporated into the subsystems manufactured by the Company.

   In addition to the manufacture of standard and OEM products, the Company
also specializes in designing and manufacturing customized optoelectronic
subsystems for use in a wide range of products and equipment. An
optoelectronic subsystem typically consists of one or more optoelectronic
devices that are combined with other electronic components and packaging for
use in an end-product. The composition of a subsystem can range from a simple
assembly of various optoelectronic devices that are incorporated into other
subsystems (for example, a printed circuit board containing the Company's
optoelectronic devices), to complete end-products (for example, medical pulse
oximeter probes that are manufactured and packaged by the Company on behalf of
the OEM customer and then shipped directly to the customer or the customer's
distributors). Since the end of fiscal 1996, the Company has manufactured
subsystems for a variety of applications, including the following: fiber
optics, imaging electronics for medical CT scanners, disposable and reusable
medical probes for use with medical pulse oximetry equipment, components and
subsystems for laser gyroscopes used in military and commercial aviation,
optoelectronic subsystems for slot machines, laser subsystems in military
helicopter gun sighting equipment, positioning subassemblies for computer
peripheral equipment, alignment subsystems for laser heads in optical disc
drives, and detection subsystems for submarines.

   The Company has also started manufacturing and shipping high-speed silicon
based photodetectors and detector-amplifier hybrids serving the fiber-optics
and telecommunications market for LAN, 1.25 Gbps and 2.5 Gbps applications. In
addition to Silicon , the company has started shipping Indium Gallium Arsenide
photodetectors serving a wide variety of storage, local, metropolitan and wide
area networks (LAN, MAN, WAN) and other long haul telecommunications
marketplace.

   Through the acquisition of majority-owned subsidiary OSI Medical, Inc., the
Company has also expanded into the field of manufacturing and selling digital
medical monitoring systems. In this field, the Company offers families of
pulse oximetry sensors to end users based on analog and digital signal
processing technology.

                                       6
<PAGE>

   The Company has also moved into the field of manufacturing and selling the
DTX 200 (DEXACARE) a U.S. Food & Drug Administration ("FDA")-approved forearm
DEXA (Dual Energy X-Ray) densitometer, which is used in the diagnosis of
osteoporosis as well as to provide follow-up bone density measurements. The
Company also produces the ultrasound DTU-One, the first commercially available
scanner using imaging capability for the diagnosis of osteoporosis. In
September, 2000, the Company received pre-market approval ("PMA") from the FDA
to sell the DTU-One in the United States.

   Security and Inspection Equipment. The Company manufactures and sells a
range of security and inspection equipment that it markets under the
"Rapiscan," "Secure" and "Metor" brand names. To date, the security and
inspection equipment has principally been used at airports to inspect carry-on
and checked baggage for guns and knives. However, inspection products are
increasingly being used for both security purposes at a wide range of
facilities other than airports and for other non-security purposes. For fiscal
years 1999, 2000 and 2001, approximately 20.5%, 26.1% and 28.3%, respectively,
of the Company's security and inspection revenues were derived from the sale
of inspection products to airlines and airports, and the balance of such
revenues were derived from all other sales.

   The Company's inspection and detection products combine the use of x-ray
technology with the Company's core optoelectronic capabilities. The Company's
products combine dual- or multi-energy x-ray technology with computer enhanced
imaging technology to facilitate the detection of materials such as
explosives, narcotics, currency or other contraband. While all x-ray systems
produce a two-dimensional image of the contents of the inspected material, the
dual-energy x-ray systems also measure the x-ray absorption of the inspected
materials' contents at two x-ray energies to determine the atomic number, mass
and other characteristics of the object's contents. The different organic and
non-organic substances in the inspected material are displayed in various
colors. This information is then displayed to an operator of the inspection
equipment who can identify and differentiate the objects in the inspected
materials. These systems range in size from compact tabletop systems to large
cargo pallet inspection systems weighing over 100,000 lbs.

   Currently, all of the Company's inspection products require an operator to
monitor the images produced by the inspection equipment. Depending on the
model, the Company's products permit the operator to inspect the contents of
packages at varying image modes and magnifications. The images range from the
monochrome and pseudo-color images produced by single x-ray imaging systems,
to high resolution, multi-color images in the Company's computer enhanced
dual-energy models. The Company believes that its Rapiscan 500 Series provides
one of the highest quality images currently available in the x-ray security
and inspection industry.

   With the acquisition of Metorex Security, the Company acquired walk-through
metal detection systems which utilize pulse induced magnetic fields combined
with microprocessor based electronics, which provide uniform detection of
ferrous and non-ferrous metallic objects. The technologies range from dual
channel crossed magnetic fields to multi-zone coil configuration.

   In the field of inspection of people, the Company's "Secure" brand product
line uses x-ray systems employing backscatter detection technology. Secure
1000 is an electronic screening system for hands-off personal scanning. The
system is based on an extremely low dose of backscatter x-ray imaging to
detect contraband and weapons concealed underneath clothing and hair. The
system provides better screening than metal detectors as it detects very small
amounts of metal as well as non-metallic contraband.

   In order to monitor the performance of operators of the x-ray baggage
screening systems that are used in the United States airports, the FAA has
implemented a computer-based training and evaluation program known as the
Screener Proficiency Evaluation And Reporting System ("SPEARS"). To
continuously monitor the effectiveness of the screening system and its
operator, test threat images, such as weapons, are projected into the images
of actual parcels being inspected. The results of these tests are available to
government agencies. In April 2000, the Company was awarded a contract by the
Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") to provide x-ray screening systems at
selected airports throughout the United States. Under the contract, the FAA
has the right to purchase up to 800 systems, for which the purchase price
would be approximately $40 million. The

                                       7
<PAGE>

initial purchase under the contract was for approximately 100 carry-on baggage
x-ray screening systems, all of which were shipped in fiscal 2001. The FAA
ordered over 200 additional systems during fiscal 2001, some of which were
shipped in fiscal 2001, and the balance of which will be shipped in fiscal
2002.

   The following table sets forth certain information related to the standard
security and inspection products currently offered by the Company. The Company
does, however, also customize its standard products to suit specific
applications and customer requirements:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       SELECTED
  MODEL (Technology)                APPLICATIONS                    INSTALLATIONS
-----------------------  ---------------------------------- ------------------------------
<S>                      <C>                                <C>
Rapiscan 519             Inspection of incoming package     Embassies
                                                            Post offices
                                                            Courthouses
                                                            High risk office buildings
                                                            Manufacturing companies

Rapiscan 500 Series      Airport hand carried and checked
 -Standard Tunnel         baggage                           Airports
 (single view            Pallet inspection                  Prisons
 and dual view 160 kV    Customs inspections                Government buildings
 x-ray                   Agriculture inspection             Nuclear facilities
 source, single energy                                      Cruise ships
 and dual                                                   Freight shippers
 energy)                                                    Border crossings

Rapiscan 500 Series      Large pallet inspection
 -Large Tunnel (single   Customs inspections
 view and                                                   Airports
 dual view 320-450 kV                                       Freight shippers
 x-ray                                                      Border crossings
 source)                                                    High risk seaport locations

Rapiscan 500 Series      Mobile x-ray inspection
 -Mobile Systems (x-ray                                     Conventions and special events
 van or                                                     Airports Customs inspections
 trailer)                                                   Border crossings

Rapiscan Series 2000     Fixed Site Cargo Inspection
 Cargo                    Systems                           Freight Shippers
 Inspection Systems                                         Border Crossings

Metor 100 Series         Walk-through metal detection       Airports
                                                            Courthouses
                                                            Government buildings
                                                            Conventions and special events

Metor 200 Series         Multi-zone walk-through metal      Airports
                          detection                         Prisons
                                                            Nuclear facilities
                                                            Government buildings
                                                            Courthouses

SECURE 1000 (non-        High Security Personnel Inspection Prisons
 intrusive                                                  Military Facilities
 personal screening                                         Border crossings
 system)                                                    Customs

Threat Image Projection  Performance Monitoring             Majority of Rapiscan
 ("TIP")                                                    500 Series Systems
</TABLE>

                                       8
<PAGE>

Markets, Customers and Applications

   Optoelectronic Devices and Subsystems. The Company's optoelectronic devices
and subsystems are used in a broad range of products by a variety of
customers. The following table illustrates, for the year ended June 30, 2001:
(i) the major product categories for which the Company provided optoelectronic
products; and (ii) certain representative customers in each such category. The
Company expects that the list of product categories, the amount of business
derived from each such product category, and the composition of its major
customers will vary from period to period.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Representative Major
                    Product Category                           Customers
 ------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------
 <C>                                                    <S>
 Computed Tomography and X-Ray Imaging                  Marconi Medical Systems
                                                        Siemans Medical
                                                        InVision Technologies

 Aerospace and Avionics                                 Cubic Defense Systems
                                                        Allied Signal
                                                        Honeywell Avionics
                                                        Litton Systems

 Medical Monitoring                                     Datascope
                                                        BCI
                                                        Invivo Research

 Analytical, Medical Diagnostics and Particle Analyzers Abaxis
                                                        Coulter Corporation

 Office Automation and Computer Peripherals             Lexmark
                                                        Xerox
                                                        Eastman Kodak

 Construction and Industrial Automation                 Spectra Physics
                                                        Dr. Johannes Heidenhain
                                                        Baumer Electric

 Military/Defense and Weapons Simulations               Lockheed Martin (Loral)
                                                        Raytheon
                                                        Norsk Forsvarstekmol

 Bar Code Scanners                                      Symbol Technologies
                                                        Mettrologic Instruments

 Gaming Industry                                        Bally Gaming

 Fiber Optics/Telecommunications                        JDS Uniphase
                                                        Nortel
</TABLE>

   In August 2000, the Company formed OSI Fibercomm, Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary, to advance the Company's fiber optic business. Fibercomm has
undertaken the sales and marketing of the Company's Indium Gallium Arsenide
and silicon photodetectors and other fiber optic products developed by the
Company's subsidiary UDT Sensors, Inc.

                                       9
<PAGE>

   Security and Inspection Products. Since entering the security and
inspection products market in 1993, the Company has shipped approximately
5,500 units to approximately 50 countries. The following is a list of certain
customers and/or installations that have purchased the Company's security and
inspection products since January 1993:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                  Overseas                               Domestic
   --------------------------------------  ------------------------------------
   <S>                                     <C>
   Prague Airport, Czech Republic          Major U.S. Airlines
   Gatwick Airport, England                Bush Intercontinental Airport
   Heathrow Airport, England               Federal Courthouses
   TNT Freight, England                    Federal Reserve Bank
   Japanese Embassies, worldwide           JFK International Airport
   Malaysian Airport Board, Malaysia       Los Angeles County Courthouse
   HAJ Terminal, Saudi Arabia              Los Angeles International Airport
   Dubai Airport, U.A.E.                   Miami Airport
   United Kingdom Prison System, United
    Kingdom                                Orlando Airport
   INFRAERO, airports, Brazil              Ronald Reagan National Airport
   Chek Lap Kok International Airport,
    Hong Kong                              U.S. Government
   Pudong Shanghai International Airport,
    P.R. China                             California Department of Corrections
   Kremlin, Russia                         U.S. Department of Corrections
   New Zealand Customs, New Zealand        Empire State Building
   Vatican                                 World Trade Center
   2000 Summer Olympics, Sydney,
    Australia
   Narita Airport, Tokyo
</TABLE>

   The market for most security and inspection products developed in response
to civilian airline highjackings. Consequently, a large portion of the
Company's security and inspection products were sold and continue to be sold
for use at airports. Recently, however, the Company's security and inspection
products have been used for security purposes at locations in addition to
airports, such as courthouses, government buildings, mail rooms, schools,
prisons and at unique locations such as Buckingham Palace in London, England.
In addition, the Company's security and inspection products are increasingly
being used for non-security purposes, such as for cargo inspection to detect
narcotics and contraband, prevention of pilferage at semiconductor
manufacturing facilities, quality assurance for agricultural products, and the
detection of gold and currency. The recent terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon using hijacked airliners likely will cause an
increase in airport security measures, which may result in an increase in
sales of the Company's security and inspection products.

   In September 1998, the Company entered into an agreement with the Federal
Aviation Administration for advanced contraband detection systems with TIP
features. The systems began to be shipped to Category X airports (designated
due to their high security priority) in the United States during fiscal 1999.
Systems were shipped during fiscal 2000 and 2001 and continue to be shipped
during fiscal 2002. In addition, the FAA ordered Rapiscan training computers
to assist in the instruction of advanced detection technologies to security
personnel.

   In January 1999, the Company entered into an agreement with the People's
Republic of China to upgrade and provide technical support for the Vehicle
Cargo X-ray System ("VCXS") operated by the Chinese customs authority at
Shenzhen, near Hong Kong. The VCXS system allows a fast, detailed inspection
of fully loaded trucks, and 20-foot and 40-foot containers in lieu of a full
manual search.

   In March 1999, the Company was awarded a contract by BAA plc, the operator
of 11 airports around the world, including London's Heathrow Airport, the
busiest international airport in the world. Rapiscan U.K. has supplied,
installed and will continue to maintain approximately 150 x-ray systems used
in screening cabin baggage for explosives, weapons and other contraband. These
systems feature advanced detection software, including TIP. The agreement also
provides for Rapiscan U.K. to provide maintenance and support services on the
installed systems for five years.

                                      10
<PAGE>

   During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into a number of significant
agreements for the development and sale of the Company's security and
inspection products. Some of the principal agreements are the following.

   In April 2000, the Company was awarded a contract by the Federal Aviation
Administration ("FAA") to provide x-ray screening systems at selected airports
throughout the United States. Under the contract, the FAA has the right to
purchase up to 800 systems, for which the purchase price would be
approximately $40 million. The initial purchase under the contract was for
approximately 100 carry-on baggage x-ray screening systems, all of which were
shipped in fiscal 2001. The FAA ordered over 200 additional systems during
fiscal 2001, some of which were shipped in fiscal 2001, and the balance of
which will be shipped in fiscal 2002.

   In June 2000, the Company was awarded a contract to supply two Rapiscan
2000 Series Large Vehicle Cargo X-ray Systems to the government of Hong Kong.
The aggregate price of these systems as of June 30, 20001 is approximately
$9.6 million, an increase of $600,000 over the original project price, due to
optional system upgrades.

Marketing, Sales and Service

   The Company markets and sells its optoelectronic devices and subsystems,
and medical imaging systems, worldwide through both a direct sales and
marketing staff of 30 employees and indirectly through a network of
approximately 40 independent sales representatives and distributors. Most of
the in-house sales staff is based in the United States while most of the
independent sales representatives and distributors are located abroad. Since
the acquisition of AME in March 1997, the Company's marketing efforts in
Europe have been conducted through AME's sales and marketing staff and through
a network of approximately seven independent sales representatives. The
Company markets and sells its security and inspection products worldwide
through a direct sales and marketing staff of approximately 30 employees
located in the United States, Finland, Canada, the United Kingdom, Dubai, and
Malaysia and through a network of approximately 135 independent sales
representatives.

   The Company's optoelectronic products and medical imaging systems sales
staff, located in the United States and Norway, is supported by an
applications engineering group whose members are available to provide
technical support. This support includes designing applications, providing
custom tooling and process integration, defining solutions for customers and
developing products that meet customer defined specifications. The security
and inspection and medical imaging products sales staff is supported by a
service organization of approximately 45 persons located primarily in the
United States, the United Kingdom, Finland and Malaysia. The Company also
supports these sales and customer relations efforts by providing operator
training, computerized training and testing equipment, in-country service,
software upgrades, service training for customer technicians and a newsletter
on security issues.

   The Company considers its maintenance service operations to be an important
element of its business. After the expiration of the standard product warranty
period, the Company is often engaged by its customers to provide maintenance
services for its security and inspection products through annual maintenance
contracts. The Company believes that its international maintenance service
capabilities allow it to be competitive in selling its security and inspection
products. Furthermore, the Company believes that as its installed base of
security and inspection products increases, revenues generated from such
annual maintenance service contracts and from the sale of replacement parts
will increase. In fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001, maintenance service revenues and
replacement part sales collectively represented 3.6%, 3.6% and 3.5%,
respectively, of the Company's revenues.

Research and Development

   The Company's components and optoelectronic subsystems are designed and
engineered at the Company's facilities in Hawthorne, California, and Horten,
Norway. The subsystems that the Company manufactures are engineered by the
Company to solve specific application needs of its OEM customers. The
Company's customers typically request that the Company design custom
optoelectronic solutions for their specific needs when standard

                                      11
<PAGE>

components or subsystems are not available from other manufacturers of
optoelectronic devices. After an end-product has been conceptualized by the
OEM, the Company normally will involve its engineers to design the
application, establish the mechanical specifications for the application,
create the appropriate subsystem architecture for the application, and design
the development, production and assembly process for the manufacture of the
ultimate subsystem. However, because the Company has the engineering, tooling
and manufacturing capabilities to design and manufacture entire subsystems,
and not just a specific component, the Company typically also designs,
manufactures and assembles the entire subsystem for the customer. Because the
Company's engineers are able to provide additional value and services to its
customers through the entire production process from concept to completion,
the Company considers its engineering personnel to be an important extension
of its core sales and marketing effort.

   In addition to close collaboration with the Company's customers in the
design and development of optoelectronics-based products, the Company
maintains an active program for the development and introduction of new
products and enhancements and improvements to its existing products, including
the implementation of new applications of its technology. The Company seeks to
further develop its research and development program and considers such a
program to be an important element of its business and operations. As of June
30, 2001, in addition to the engineers that the Company employed in
manufacturing, process design and applications development, the Company
engaged approximately 95 full-time engineers and technicians in research and
development. During fiscal 2001 and 2000, the Company's research and
development expenses were approximately $6.7 million and $7.7 million,
respectively. The decrease was primarily due to certain research and
development personnel working on specific shipments and the cost of their
services was charged to manufacturing overhead. In order to fulfill its
strategy of increasing its security and inspection product lines and of
enhancing the capabilities of its existing products, the Company intends to
continue to increase its research and development efforts in the future.

   The Company's security screening products are designed at Rapiscan U.S.A.'s
facilities in Hawthorne, California and Rapiscan U.K.'s facilities in Crawley,
England and Espoo, Finland. These products include mechanical, electrical,
electronic, digital electronic and software subsystems, which are all designed
by the Company. In addition to product design, the Company provides system
integration services to integrate its products into turnkey systems at the
customer site. The Company supports cooperative research projects with
government agencies and, on occasion, provides contract research for its
customers and government agencies.

Manufacturing and Materials Management

   The Company currently has manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom,
Singapore, Malaysia, Finland, Canada and Norway, in addition to its
manufacturing facilities in Hawthorne, California and Ocean Springs,
Mississippi. The Company's principal manufacturing facility is in Hawthorne,
California. However, most of the Company's high volume, labor intensive
manufacturing and assembly is generally performed at its facility in Malaysia.
Since most of the Company's customers currently are located in Europe and the
United States, the Company's ability to assemble its products in these markets
and provide follow-on service from offices located in these regions is an
important component of the Company's global strategy.

   The Company seeks to focus its subsystem manufacturing resources on its
core competencies that enable it to provide value-added enhancements and
distinctive value. The Company believes that its manufacturing organization
has expertise in optoelectronic, electrical and mechanical manufacturing and
assembly of products for commercial applications and for high reliability
applications. High reliability devices and subsystems are those which are
designed, manufactured, screened and qualified to function under exceptionally
severe levels of environmental stress. The manufacturing techniques include
silicon wafer processing and fabrication, manufacture and assembly of
photodiodes, surface mounting (SMT) and manual thru-hole assembly, thick-film
ceramic processing, wire bonding, molding, assembly of components, testing,
and packaging. The Company also has the ability to manufacture plastic parts
and certain other parts that are either not available from third party
suppliers or that can be more efficiently or cost-effectively manufactured in-
house. The Company outsources certain manufacturing operations including its
sheet metal fabrication. The manufacturing process for

                                      12
<PAGE>

components and subsystems consists of manual tasks performed by skilled and
semi-skilled workers as well as automated tasks. The number of subsystems that
the Company manufacturers depends on the customers' needs and may range from a
few subsystems (such as an optoelectronic sun sensor for use in a satellite)
to many thousands (sensors used in laser printers and bar code readers).

   The principal raw materials and subcomponents used in producing the
Company's optoelectronic devices and subsystems consist of silicon wafers,
ceramics, electronic subcomponents, light emitting diodes, phototransistors,
printed circuit boards, headers and caps, housings, cables, filters and
packaging materials. For cost, quality control and efficiency reasons, the
Company generally purchases raw materials and subcomponents only from single
vendors with whom the Company has ongoing relationships. The Company does,
however, qualify second sources for most of its raw materials and
subcomponents, or has identified alternate sources of supply. The Company
purchases the materials pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time
in the ordinary course of business. The silicon-based optoelectronic devices
manufactured by the Company are critical components in most of its subsystems.
Since 1987, the Company has purchased substantially all of the silicon wafers
it uses to manufacture its optoelectronic devices from Wacker Siltronic Corp.
Although to date the Company has not experienced any significant shortages or
material delays in obtaining any of its raw materials or subcomponents, there
can be no assurance that the Company will not face such shortages or delays in
one or more of these materials in the future.

   Substantially all of the optoelectronic devices, subsystems, circuit boards
and x-ray generators used in the Company's inspection and detection systems
are manufactured in-house. The metal shells of the x-ray inspection systems,
and certain standard mechanical parts are purchased from various third-party
unaffiliated providers.

Patents and Trademarks

   In June 1999, as part of the settlement of an arbitration, the Company
entered into a fully paid-up, nonexclusive patent license agreement with
PerkinElmer, Inc., formerly known as EG&G, Inc. ("EG&G") for U.S. Patent No.
4,366,382. The patent expired in September 2000. Subsequent to the end of the
patent term, the Company has been free to use the technology without patent or
license restriction. Under the license, for which the Company paid $450,000,
the Company was permitted to make, use and sell or otherwise dispose of
security and inspection products that use an x-ray line scan system for
baggage inspection purposes covered by EG&G's patent.

   In December 1998, as part of the settlement of certain litigation, the
Company and Lunar Corporation ("Lunar") made payments to each other which
resulted in a net payment to the Company of $400,000. As part of the
settlement, the parties entered into a license agreement pursuant to which the
Company, Rapiscan and UDT were granted a fully paid up worldwide, nonexclusive
license under U.S. Patent Nos. 4,626,688 (the "688 patent") and 5,138,167 (the
"167 patent") in the non-medical field. The Company paid Lunar $1.5 million
for this fully paid up license.

   Prior to the Company's acquisition of Osteometer in September 1998,
Osteometer had also been involved in litigation with Lunar regarding the 688
and 167 patents. In December 1998, the parties to this litigation entered into
a settlement agreement. As a part of the settlement, the parties entered into
a license agreement pursuant to which Osteometer was granted a worldwide,
nonexclusive license under the 688 and 167 patents for certain bone
densitometers. Osteometer made an initial royalty payment of $250,000 with
respect to products manufactured prior to the entering into of this license
agreement and the Company will make royalty payments on future sales of the
licensed products. The license expires in December 2003 or the last to expire
of the licensed patents, whichever is later.

   Rapiscan owns U.S. Patent No. 5,181,234 covering personnel screening
systems and manufactures the Secure 1000 in accordance to the patent. This
patent was issued in 1993 and expires in 2010. In July 2000, Rapiscan was
awarded U.S. Patent No. 6,094,472 for an X-ray Backscatter Imaging System
relating to improvement of the SECURE(TM) product line. This patent expires in
2018.

                                      13
<PAGE>

   Rapiscan Security Products utilize the trademarks Rapiscan(R) and
SECURE(TM).

   UDT has a patent application pending for high-speed (greater than 1.0Gbps)
silicon photodiode for fiber optics market; it is unknown at this time if this
patent will be issued.

   Metorex Security's "Metor" trademark is registered in 25 countries,
including the United States, the European Union countries and Japan. Metorex
Security has also registered the trademark "Metorscan" in the United States
and the European Union countries. Metorex Security utilizes four patents
registered in the United States (U.S. Patent Nos. 4,605,898; 5,121,105;
5,047,718; 4,894,619) and other countries, including the European Union
countries. These patents were issued between 1986 and 1995, with expirations
between 2002 and 2008. The patents cover various improvements in metal
detection systems.

   Osteometer owns U.S. Patent No. 6,058,157, expiring 2018, for new region of
interest for monitoring medical treatment for osteoporosis, and U.S. Patent
No. 6,086,538, expiring 2018, for placement of the region of interest based on
an anatomical feature in the calcaneus for ultrasound technology.

   The following are additional patents held by the Company through its
subsidiaries. The dates specified are the filing dates; patents generally
expire 20 years after the filing date.

Patents subject to the University of South Florida License:

<TABLE>
 <C>       <S>
 5,575,284 Portable Pulse Oximeter; April 1, 1994
 5,830,137 Green Light Pulse Oximeter; November 18, 1996
           Medical Diagnostic Instrument using Light to Frequency Converter;
 6,011,985 November 18, 1996
</TABLE>

Patents acquired in the medical field:

<TABLE>
 <C>       <S>
 D384,412  Rectal Probe; October 20, 1995
 D387,862  Anatomical Probe Attachment; October 20, 1995
 5,217,012 Non-Invasive Oximeter Probe; August 22, 1991
 5,329,922 Oximetric Esophageal Probe; October 19, 1992
 5,368,025 Non-Invasive Oximeter Probe; March 25, 1993
 5,417,207 Apparatus for the Invasive use of Oximeter Probes; December 6, 1993
 5,429,129 Apparatus for Determining Spectral Absorption by a Specific
           Substance in a Fluid; November 8, 1993
 5,715,816 Improved Oximeter Probe; October 20, 1995
 5,067,492 Disposable Airway Adapter; August 7, 1990
 5,081,998 Optically Stabilized Infrared Energy Detector; May 11. 1990
 5,095,913 Shutterless Optically Stabilized Capnograph; May 11, 1990
 5,247,185 Regulated Infrared Source; October 28, 1991
 D342,135  Airway Adapter; October 28, 1991
 5,281,817 Method of Selecting an Optical Filter for a Shutterless Optically
           Stabilized Capnograph.; October 28,1991
 5,282,473 Sidestream Infrared Gas Analyzer Requiring Small Sample Volumes;
           November 10, 1992
 5,296,706 Shutterless mainstream discriminating anesthetic agent analyzer ;
           December 2, 1992
 5,932,877 High performance side stream infrared gas analyzer; April 17, 1997
 6,091,504 Method and apparatus for measuring gas concentration using a
           semiconductor laser; May 21, 1998
 6,095,986 Disposable anti-fog airway adapter; July 28, 1998
</TABLE>

   The Company believes that the above patents and trademarks are important to
the Company's business. The loss of some of these patents or trademarks might
have a negative impact; however, the Company operates in a competitive
environment with a known customer base and relies mainly on providing value
for money with quality products and services to ensure continuing business.

                                      14
<PAGE>

Environmental Regulations

   The Company is subject to various federal, state and local environmental
laws, ordinances and regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, and
disposal of certain hazardous substances and wastes used or generated in the
manufacturing and assembly of the Company's products. Under such laws, the
Company may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain
hazardous substances that have been or are being released on or in its
facilities or that have been or are being disposed of off site as wastes. Such
laws may impose liability without regard to whether the Company knew of, or
caused, the release of such hazardous substances. In the past, the Company has
conducted a Phase I environmental assessment report for each of the properties
in the United States at which it currently manufactures products. The purpose
of each such report was to identify, as of the date of that report, potential
sources of contamination of the property. In certain cases, the Company has
received a Phase II environmental assessment report consisting of further soil
testing and other investigations deemed appropriate by an independent
environmental consultant. The Company believes that it is currently in
compliance with all material environmental regulations in connection with its
manufacturing operations, and that it has obtained all material environmental
permits necessary to conduct its business. The amount of hazardous substances
and wastes produced and generated by the Company may increase in the future
depending on changes in the Company's operations. Any failure by the Company
to comply with present or future regulations could subject the Company to the
imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of
manufacturing process or cessation of operations, any of which could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and
results of operations.

   The Company has recently discovered soil and groundwater contamination at
its Hawthorne, California facility. It has filed the requisite reports
concerning this problem with the appropriate environmental authorities. The
Company has not yet received any response to such reports, and no agency
action or litigation is presently pending or threatened. The Company also has
notified the prior owners of the Company property and the present owners and
tenants of adjacent properties concerning the problem and has requested from
such parties agreements to toll of the statute of limitations with respect to
actions against such parties with respect to the contamination in order that
it may focus its attention on resolution of the contamination problem. The
Company site has been used previously for semiconductor manufacturing similar
to that presently conducted on the site by the Company, and it is not
presently known who is responsible for the contamination and the remediation.
The groundwater contamination is a known regional problem, not limited to the
Company premises or its immediate surroundings.

Competition

   The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive and
characterized by evolving customer needs and rapid technological change. The
Company competes with a number of other manufacturers, many of which have
significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the
Company. In addition, these competitors may have the ability to respond more
quickly to new or emerging technologies, adapt more quickly to changes in
customer requirements, have stronger customer relationships, have greater name
recognition, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and
sale of their products than does the Company. There can be no assurance that
the Company will be able to compete successfully against any current or future
competitors in either the optoelectronic devices and subsystems and medical
imaging systems market or the security and inspection markets or that future
competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect its business,
financial conditions and results of operations.

   In the optoelectronic devices and subsystems market, competition for
optoelectronic devices and subsystems is based primarily on such factors as
expertise in the design and development of optoelectronic devices, product
quality, timeliness of delivery, price, customer technical support, and on the
ability to provide fully integrated services from application development and
design through volume subsystem production. The Company believes that its
major competitors in the optoelectronic device and subsystem market are
PerkinElmer, Inc.'s Electro-Optics division, Hamamatsu Corporation, and
Honeywell Optoelectronics, a division of Honeywell, Inc. Because the Company
specializes in custom subsystems requiring a high degree of engineering
expertise, the Company

                                      15
<PAGE>

believes that it generally does not compete to any significant degree with any
other large United States, European or Asian manufacturers of standard
optoelectronic components. Competition for the Company's medical imaging
products comes principally from Lunar Corporation, Hologic, Inc. and Norland
Medical Systems, Inc.

   In the fiber optics market, the Company has many competitors, both domestic
and foreign.

   In the security and inspection market, competition is based primarily on
such factors as product performance, functionality and quality, the over-all
cost effectiveness of the system, prior customer relationships, technological
capabilities of the products, price, local market presence, and breadth of
sales and service organization. The Company believes that its principal
competitors in the market for security and inspection products are the
Astrophysics and Vivid Technologies divisions of PerkinElmer, Inc., Heimann
Systems GmbH, InVision Technologies, Inc., American Science and Engineering,
Inc., Barringer Technologies, Inc., Control Screening L.L.C., CEIA, SpA,
Garrett Electronics, Inc. and Thermedics Detection, Inc. Competition could
result in price reductions, reduced margins, and loss of market share by the
Company. The Company believes that the principal competitor for its products
using x-ray backscatter detection technology is American Science &
Engineering, Inc. In the airline and airport security and inspection market,
particularly in the upgrade and replacement market, the Company also competes
for potential customers based on existing relationships between its
competitors and the customers. Certain of the Company's competitors have been
manufacturing inspection systems since the 1980s and have established strong
relationships with airlines and airport authorities. The Company believes that
the image quality and resolution of certain of its security and inspection
products is superior to the image quality offered by most of its competitors'
x-ray based inspection products. Additionally, the Company's true multi-zone
technology provides the ability to detect small metallic objects and offer
higher levels of discrimination in weapons-screening applications. Although
the Company also has established relationships with a number of airport and
airline customers, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to
successfully compete in the future with existing competitors or with new
entrants.

Backlog

   The Company measures its backlog as orders for which purchase orders or
contracts have been signed, but which have not yet been shipped and for which
revenues have not yet been recognized. The Company typically ships its
optoelectronic devices and subsystems, and medical imaging systems as well as
its security and inspection products within one to several months after
receiving an order. However, such shipments may be delayed for a variety of
reasons including any special design or engineering requirements of the
customer. In addition, large orders (more than ten machines) of security and
inspection products typically require more lead time.

   Large cargo scanning machines may require several months to several years
lead time. The only significant shipping delays which the Company has
experienced are with large cargo scanners. Such delays can occur for any of
the following reasons, among others: (i) additional time necessary to conduct
large cargo inspections at the factory before shipment; (ii) the customer's
needs to engage in timely special site preparation to accommodate such a
scanner, and as to which the Company has no control or responsibility; and
(iii) additional fine tuning of such scanners once they are installed.

   At June 30, 2001, the Company's backlog products totaled approximately
$53.2 million, compared to approximately $54.3 million at June 30, 2000 and
approximately $44.1 million at June 30, 1999. The backlogs at June 30, 2000
and 1999 include backlogs of SMI of approximately $4.5 million and $4.6
million, respectively, whereas the June 30, 2001 backlog does not include any
SMI backlog because the Company has sold SMI. The backlog as of June 30, 2001,
includes approximately $6 million of OSI Fibercomm backlog, delivery of most
of which is presently on hold and being rescheduled with customers, and the
Company does not presently know when it may be shipped. Most of the Company's
backlog as of June 30, 2001, with the exception of a majority of an order for
large cargo-scanning machines valued at approximately $7 million, is expected
to be shipped during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2002. Any failure of the
Company to meet an agreed upon schedule could

                                      16
<PAGE>

lead to the cancellation of the related order. Variations in the size of the
order, the product mix, and delivery requirements of the customer order may
result in substantial fluctuations in backlog from period to period. Backlog
as of any particular date should not be relied upon as indicative of the
Company's revenues for any future period and cannot be considered a meaningful
indicator of the Company's performance on an annual or quarterly basis.

Employees

   As of June 30, 2001, the Company employed approximately 965 people, of whom
690 were employed in manufacturing, 95 were employed in research and
development, 75 were employed in finance and administration, 60 were employed
in sales and marketing, and 45 were employed in its service organization. Of
the total employees, approximately 492 were employed in the United States, 4
in Canada, 143 were employed in Europe, and 326 were employed in Asia. Other
than 16 employees of AME and 10 Metorex Security employees in Finland, none of
the Company's other employees is unionized. 16 employees at AME and 10 Metorex
Security employees in Finland are union members and have collective bargaining
rights. There has never been a work stoppage or strike at the Company, and
management believes that its relations with its employees are good.
