ITEM 1. BUSINESS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information incorporated by
reference herein, includes "forward looking statements" within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act")
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
"Exchange Act"). All of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form
10-K, other than statements of historical fact, should be considered forward
looking statements, including, but not limited to, the statements regarding the
timing of the marketability of emerging applications; the growth of the PC
camera market; the growth of the number of pictures generated as different uses
of imaging and video emerge; the ease of transferring images across PC systems
and communication networks; opportunities for small, low power, low cost
digital still cameras to be integrated directly into portable devices; the
growth of the market for digital still cameras; the growth of the CMOS image
sensor market and the time at which the CMOS image sensor market will surpass
the CCD image sensor market; the role which new CMOS image sensors will play in
moving video applications into many new mass markets; the suitability of
multiple chip image sensors for many new mass market applications; the
advantages derived by us and our customers from directly working together; our
continued investment of significant funds in research and development; our
future success being dependent upon our ability to protect our intellectual
property; our plan to vigorously defend ourselves in lawsuits regarding
intellectual property; our continued evaluation of the benefits of migrating to
a smaller circuit technology, using other color filter vendors and other
packaging technologies and making our testing facilities available to third
parties; the retention of future earnings and the payment of cash dividends;
our plan for the use of the net proceeds of our initial public offering; our
current foreign currency exchange rate risk; the effect of a 10% change on
interest rates on our fair market value and our portfolio and our expectation
of the effect of a sudden change in market interest rates on our operating
results and cash flows.  There can be no assurance that these expectations will
prove to have been correct. Certain important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, in the section entitled
"Factors Affecting Future Results" in Item 7. -- Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and this section. All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements by or attributable to us
or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by
such factors.


Overview
--------

     We were organized in 1995 as a California corporation and completed a
reincorporation in Delaware in March 2000 prior to our initial public offering.
We design, develop and market high performance, high quality and cost efficient
semiconductor imaging devices for computing, communications and consumer
electronics applications. Our main product, an image sensor, is used to capture
an image in cameras and camera related products such as personal computer
cameras, digital still cameras, personal digital assistant cameras and mobile
phone cameras. We have developed our image sensors using the standard
semiconductor manufacturing process used for approximately ninety percent of
modern integrated circuits. This enables us to take advantage of the many
benefits of high volume, mainstream semiconductor manufacturing such as low
cost, high reliability, volume capacity and competitive lead times. In
addition, unlike competitive image sensors which require multiple chips to
achieve the same functions, we are able to integrate nearly all camera
functions into a single chip. This leads us to believe that we supply the most
highly integrated, single chip image sensor. Our single chip design offers
competitive advantages that can allow our customers to design cameras that are
lower in cost, smaller, lighter in weight, consume less power, are more
reliable and more easily integrated with other circuits than cameras using
multiple chip image sensors. Our image sensors are currently used for the
following applications:

     o digital still cameras, personal computer video cameras, personal digital
       assistant cameras and mobile phone cameras which are used for capturing
       images that can be stored, downloaded, viewed, edited and manipulated,
       and for Internet applications such as creating still and  live video for
       websites and e-mail;


                                      3

<PAGE>

     o security and surveillance systems and closed circuit television systems
       including onsite and remote security cameras for both home and business
       and surveillance systems such as baby monitors and door phones; and

     o toys and games such as highly interactive participatory video games
       where the users' motions and images can be incorporated into the game
       and his or her motions, rather than a joystick or mouse, control actions
       in the game.

     We assist our customers in developing new image sensor specifications that
are required for emerging applications. We believe that these applications will
be marketable within the next three years. Examples of such applications
include:

     o personal identification systems such as fingerprint scanners, retina
       scanners and face recognition systems;

     o medical imaging devices used for routine doctors' office examinations;

     o machine control systems such as bar code readers, production control
       systems and quality inspection systems;

     o automotive applications such as cameras that may replace rear and side
       view mirrors to security systems, air bag inflation sensors, accident
       recorders, driver monitors and maintenance inspection systems; and

     o videophones integrated in tabletop phones.

     We have shipped approximately 6.5 million image sensors in the year ended
April 30, 2001, or Fiscal Year 2001, as compared to approximately 4.0 million
image sensors in the year ended April 30, 2000 or Fiscal Year 2000. Our
customers include industry leading original equipment manufacturers, or OEM,
such as Alaris, Inc., or Alaris, Creative Technologies Ltd., or Creative,
Teksel Co., Ltd., or Teksel, who distributes our products to Kyocera
Corporation, or Kyocera, X10 Wireless Technology, Inc., or X10, and Viewquest
Technologies, Inc., or Viewquest.

     Our objective is to be a leading supplier of image sensors for camera
manufacturers by:

     o focusing on capturing mass market applications;

     o targeting camera manufacturers by assisting them in the design and
       development of their products;

     o maintaining our technology leadership by continuing to develop our core
       technology;

     o continuing to develop new products aimed at new and existing markets;
       and

     o continuing to establish both formal and informal strategic relationships
with key suppliers and customers.


Industry Background
-------------------

   Growth of Digital Video Imaging

     Multimedia technology and its uses have grown in the past decade. A
significant driver of this growth in multimedia has been the growth of video
technologies. Many large industries including the movie, television, publishing
and computer industries depend directly on video technologies to create and
deliver their products. Traditionally all video, still image and sound products
were based on analog technologies. More recently, computer based video
technology has been replacing traditional analog image and sound capture
technologies, such as conventional cameras, film and tape recorders. This has
begun to occur because digital technology offers enhanced quality, manipulation
and storage capabilities that analog technologies lack. For example, a movie
recorded and stored digitally can be easily searched and will not suffer
degradation over time.


                                       4


<PAGE>


   The Internet and Miniaturization of Electronics Fuel Demand for Video
Imaging

     Video and image capture on PCs was first used in videoconferencing
applications. However, early videoconferencing applications were expensive, and
suffered from poor image quality and inadequate network infrastructure. Video
conferencing grew rapidly as image quality improved and cameras became more
affordable. Cahners In-Stat Group predicts that the market for PC cameras will
grow from approximately 9 million units in 2000 to approximately 35 million
units by 2004. As cameras became readily available on PCs, applications other
than videoconferencing quickly followed. The introduction of the World Wide Web
browser, with its hypertext and Uniform Resource Locator, or URL, address
system, changed the Internet from a text based system to a multimedia driven
network that features sound, pictures and live video clips. Fueled by the
growth of the Internet as a method to publish, transport and store images, the
number of pictures generated is expected to grow significantly as different
uses of imaging and video continue to emerge. Today PC video cameras are used
for capturing still pictures and live video clips used for web sites, video
email, video greeting cards, web based photo exchanges, desktop publishing and
interactive games. As network bandwidth continues to improve, transferring
images across PC systems and communication networks will become even easier,
further driving the demand for video and multimedia applications.

     Miniaturization has moved computing from the desktop to a wide assortment
of portable and hand held devices including laptops, personal digital
assistants, electronic games and mobile phones. These battery operated devices
are creating an opportunity for small, low power, low cost digital still
cameras to be integrated directly into the portable device so that images can
be captured for transfer to computer systems using wired or wireless methods.
Examples of commercial uses for these captured images include property damage
pictures for insurance claims, images of competitive products for analysis, or
enhancement of computer contact databases.

     The more recent digital still cameras use a live video image sensor to
display a real time image on a miniature, built in display which serves as a
viewfinder. Still images captured by the same sensor and stored in the camera
are transferred to a computer system for viewing, editing, transmitting and
printing. When connected to the computer, digital still cameras can also
function like PC video cameras. These devices have made a significant impact on
the camera market by taking market share from film based cameras and are one of
the fastest growing consumer electronic products.

   Advances in Image Sensor Technology

     Image sensors are at the center of all electronic cameras. Image sensors
capture an image through a lens and convert that image into electronic signals.
Charged couple device, or CCD, technology has dominated the image sensor market
for over 25 years. However, production is concentrated with relatively few,
large, primarily vertically integrated camcorder manufacturers. According to a
study published by the Cahners In-Stat Group in October 2000, the top six CCD
image sensor manufacturers, Fuji Corporation, or Fuji, Matsushita Electric
Industrial, or Matsushita, Nippon Electric Corporation or NEC, Sharp
Corporation, or Sharp, Sony Corporation, or Sony, and Toshiba Corporation, or
Toshiba, account for approximately 97.3% of total CCD image sensor production.

     A newer, easier to use semiconductor technology, complementary metal oxide
semiconductor, or CMOS, has been adopted for most common integrated circuits.
Although CMOS technology has been available for image sensor designs for over
20 years, until recently it has not been used in commercial products because of
poor image quality. Recent improvements in CMOS, including smaller size
circuits, better current control, and a more stable fabrication process, have
made it possible to design CMOS image sensors that provide high image quality
and that have many advantages over CCD sensors.

   Advantages of CMOS Over CCD Technology

     CMOS technology has many advantages over CCD technology including:

     o Cameras using CMOS image sensors consume as little as one tenth as much
       power as those using CCD technology, making them more suitable for
       battery operated applications.

                                       5

<PAGE>

     o CMOS image sensors require only one voltage, the three or five volts
       typically used for modern integrated CMOS circuits, while CCD image
       sensors require three separate and different voltages, which means that
       CMOS image sensors are easier and less costly to integrate into
       companion circuit boards.

     o CMOS technology permits integration of more functions into fewer chips,
       providing space, cost, product design and reliability advantages.
Cameras using CMOS technology do not require as many semiconductors as cameras
using CCD technology.

     o The CMOS fabrication process requires fewer masking steps than the CCD
       fabrication process. The CCD fabrication process generally requires 20
       to 40 masking steps, which is two to three times more complex than the
       typical CMOS fabrication process.

     o CMOS image sensors do not cause an image to lose definition when
       directed towards bright light while CCD image sensors create a blurry or
       smeared image.

     In addition, since CCD technology is used only for image sensors, future
improvements in the core technology and the fabrication process are
concentrated among a few large, vertically integrated equipment manufactures.
Such concentration tends to limit innovation and investments, and according to
Frost & Sullivan, economies of scale for the manufacture of CCD image sensors
have already been reached. By contrast, CMOS technology is used for
approximately 90% of modern integrated circuits.

     Because of the advantages of CMOS technology, the market for CMOS image
sensors is expected to surpass the market for CCD image sensors in 2003. The
Cahners In-Stat Group forecasts in its study published in October 2000, that
CMOS's share of the image sensor market will grow from approximately 30% in
2000 to 75% in 2004. In particular, Cahners In-Stat Group predicts that in
2004, approximately 88.6% of the 35 million PC cameras will use CMOS image
sensors. Cahners In-Stat Group also predicts that in 2004 CMOS technology will
account for approximately 45.8% of the 34.9 million digital still cameras.

   Applications for CMOS Image Sensors

     Based on discussions with current and potential customers, we anticipate
that the newer CMOS image sensors will help move video applications into many
new mass markets, particularly where low cost, low power consumption and small
size are important. Some of these applications include:

     o a wide array of personal identification systems, including fingerprint
       scanners, retina scanners and face recognition systems that can be used
       for credit card and debit card authorization, opening a hotel door,
       entering a car or home, accessing a computer or online network, and any
       number of applications where a system needs to identify a  person as a
       valid user;

     o a wide array of medical instruments used for routine doctors' office
       examinations;

     o videophones integrated into tabletop phones;

     o automotive applications that range from cameras that may replace rear
       and side view mirrors to security systems, air bag inflation sensors,
       accident recorders, driver monitors and maintenance inspection systems;
       and

     o machine control applications, including bar code readers, production
       control systems and quality control monitors.

     However, we believe that multiple chip CMOS image sensors do not fully
take advantage of the benefits enabled by CMOS technology. Image sensors that
require more than one chip are more expensive, larger, heavier, consume more
power, are less reliable and are more difficult to integrate with other
electronic circuits. As a result, multiple chip image sensors may not be ideal
for many new mass market applications.


                                       6

<PAGE>


Our Solution
------------

     We design, develop and market our high performance, high quality and cost
efficient image sensors for computing, communications and consumer electronics
applications. We have developed our image sensors using the standard CMOS
manufacturing process used for approximately 90% of modern integrated circuits.
As a result, unlike competitive image sensors which require multiple chips to
achieve the same functions, we are able to integrate nearly all the camera
functions into a single chip. This leads us to believe that we supply the most
highly integrated single chip image sensor. Customers can use our highly
integrated image sensor to design camera products that are lower in cost,
smaller in size, lighter in weight, consume less power and are more reliable
and easier to integrate with other electronic circuits than cameras using the
traditional CCD technology or multiple chip CMOS image sensors.

     Our proprietary circuit design integrates the image capture, the image
processing function, the color processing and the conversion and output into a
single chip. Our image sensors are used in conjunction with our interface chips
or other manufacturers' adaptor chips to connect directly with a personal
computer.

     Our image sensors provide a number of benefits to our customers, including
the following:

     o Lower Cost. The highly integrated design of our image sensors allows
       -----------
       our customers to build a camera that can be generally less expensive
       than one using CCD technology. Our single chip image sensor also allows
       our customers to build cameras that generally are less expensive than
       cameras using multiple chip CMOS image sensors.

     o Lower Power Consumption. A camera using our image sensor can require as
       ------------------------
       little as one tenth of the power required for a CCD camera and half the
       power required for a multiple chip CMOS camera, making our solution more
       suitable for battery powered operation. In addition, CMOS image sensors
       use a single voltage while CCD image sensors require three voltages. As
       a result of this simplicity, our customers can more easily and quickly
       design camera products.

     o Smaller Size. Our highly integrated, single chip design allows our
       -------------
       customers to develop cameras that are smaller in size and lighter in
       weight than cameras that use CCD or multiple chip CMOS image sensors.
       For portable applications, size and weight are critical factors in a
       consumer's buying decision. Additionally, devices using our image
       sensors are more reliable because there are fewer parts to fail.

     o Streamlined Manufacturing and Production. Our image sensors provide
       -----------------------------------------
       consistent quality that makes them easier to use for large-scale
       production than CCD image sensors because CCD image sensors must each be
       hand calibrated to match companion components. Our image sensors can be
       mounted with automatic insertion equipment and run through standard
       automatic re-flow soldering lines, whereas CCD must each be individually
       placed and soldered by hand.

     o Ease of Use for End Users. As opposed to other CCD and CMOS image sensor
       --------------------------
       manufacturers, we offer a complete solution for our customers' end
       users. Use of our image sensors along with our interface chips and our
       Windows(r) and Apple Computer iMac(r) software drivers enables a plug
       and play connection of the camera to a personal computer.

     o Accelerated Time to Market. The highly integrated nature of our image
       ---------------------------
       sensors and their programming ease simplify the design of cameras and
       allow our customers to shorten their product design time. We can also
       help our customers accelerate their time to market by providing camera
       reference designs, engineering design review services and customer
       product evaluation testing and debugging services.

                                       7

Our Strategy
------------

     Our objective for Fiscal Year 2001 was to maintain and grow our leadership
position as a supplier of CMOS image sensors for the camera manufacturer
marketplace. Key elements of our strategy included:

     o Target Mass Market Applications. We focused our efforts on mass market
       --------------------------------
       opportunities for image sensors. These markets included cameras for
       closed circuit television systems, digital still cameras, personal
       computer video cameras, personal digital assistant cameras, mobile phone
       cameras, cameras for security and surveillance systems, cameras for toys
       and games, videophones, personal identification systems, medical imaging
       devices, machine control systems and automotive applications.

     o Focus on Camera Manufacturers. We used our expertise in the design of
       ------------------------------
       consumer cameras to assist our camera manufacturer customers to design
       and develop their products using our image sensors.

     o Maintain Technology Leadership. We maintained our technology leadership
       -------------------------------
       by developing our core technology. Our product and technology strategy
       is focused on developing image sensors that are smaller in size, consume
       less power and have higher pixel resolutions. During Fiscal Year 2001,
       we achieved progress along all of these parameters and made
       announcements of new products in all of these categories, including our
       new higher resolution sensors, smaller, lower power consuming versions
       of the CIF and VGA sensors, and new software drivers for the Apple iMac
       market.

     o Developed New Products. In Fiscal Year 2001, we developed new products
       -----------------------
       aimed at new and existing markets. We introduced three new product
       families, which included the OV8110 and related OV8610 medium resolution
       chips and the OV9110 and related OV9610 high resolution megapixel chips.

     o Continued to Develop Strategic Relationships. We continued to establish
       ---------------------------------------------
       both formal and informal strategic relationships with key manufacturers
       and customers. Relationships with manufacturers enable us to gain access
       to wafer capacity and develop joint engineering projects aimed at
       enhancing the application of our image sensors and improving the
       production yield and the sensor image quality of our image sensors.
       Relationships with customers have allowed us to collaborate in the
design and development of cameras using our image sensors.


Products
--------

     We design, develop and market our high performance, high quality and cost
efficient CMOS image sensors for computing, communications, automotive and
consumer electronics applications.

     We have developed proprietary designs for a single chip image sensor that
includes the image capture, image processing circuitry, color processing and
conversion and output. Our products are programmable and allow our customers to
provide custom, proprietary features in their application software or hardware
design so that they can offer unique products to end users. Our technology
provides a platform for different products that allow our customers to choose
the most appropriate features for their applications. These features include:


                                       8

<PAGE>

                                Product Features

Complementary Metal Oxide
Semiconductor Image Sensors              Black and white or color
Resolutions                              Low resolution
                                         Medium resolution
                                         High resolution
Output Signal                            For television
                                         For computers
Operating Voltage                        5 volt or 3 volt
Optical Lens Size                        1/6, 1/5, 1/4, 1/3 or 1/2 inch format
Interface Chips                          For connecting to computers
Software Drivers                         Windows and Apple computer
                                         software drivers

     The following table summarizes our current image sensor product offerings:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                               CMOS Image Sensors
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Product
    Black and    Color                                             Introduction
 White Sensors  Sensors  Resolution   Output     Target Markets         Date
--------------  -------  ----------   ------     --------------         ----
<S>            <C>      <C>       <C>            <C>                  <C>
    OV5116               Low       NTSC or PAL    Security and          2/01
                                   for TV         surveillance
                                                  Toys and games

    OV5017               Low       For computers  Machine control       5/97
    OV7410      OV7910   Medium    NTSC or PAL                          2/99
                                   for TV         Security and
                                                  surveillance
                                                  Close circuit
                                                  television
                                                  Toys and games

   OV6120       OV6620   Low       For computers  PC video cameras      4/99
                                                  Toys and games
                                                  Machine control
   OV7120       OV7620   Medium    For computers  PC video cameras     10/99
                                                  Digital still cameras
                                                  Machine control
                                                  Security and
                                                  surveillance

   OV6130       OV6630   Low       For computers  PC video cameras       2/00
                                                  Toys and games
                                                  Machine control

   OV8110       OV8610   Medium    For computers  PC video cameras       2/01
                         High                     Digital still cameras
                                                  Machine control
                                                  Security and
                                                  surveillance

   OV9110       OV9610   High      For computers  PC video cameras       4/01
                                                  Digital still cameras
                                                  Machine control
                                                  Security and
                                                  surveillance

</TABLE>

     We also provide a companion chip used to interface our image sensors to
the universal serial bus, a connection which allows add on devices to be
connected to personal computers. These low cost, proprietary designed chips
accept the live video output from our image sensors, perform data compression
and handle the bus protocol for transferring the image data to the personal
computer. They also act as a master for passing programming information to and
from our image sensor.

     We also design, develop and license plug and play software drivers for
Microsoft Windows and Apple Computer's iMac system. These software drivers
accept the image data being received from the universal serial bus,


                                       9


<PAGE>

provide the  data decompression if required and manage interface protocols with
the camera. These drivers have been designed for speed and flexibility and
allow easy customization of the user interface to give the appearance of the
customer's branded product or application software.


Customers
---------

     Our customers include industry leading camera manufacturers, contract
manufacturers and distributors. During Fiscal Year 2001, we shipped
approximately 6.5 million image sensors as compared to approximately 4.0
million image sensors during Fiscal Year 2000. The following table describes
representative camera manufacturer customers who purchase our products for
their own branded products and contract manufacturers who build products for a
camera manufacturer. Also shown are representative distributors who purchase
our products for resale.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

         Customer             Product Family                Markets
         --------             --------------                -------
            Camera Manufacturer and Contract Manufacturer Customers
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                   <C>                           <C>
Alaris                 Color digital sensors         PC video cameras
                       Color analog sensors          Toys and games
COMedia                Black and white analog        Security and surveillance
                       sensors
                       Color analog sensors
Creative Technology    Color digital sensors         PC video cameras
                       USB interface                 Digital still cameras

CRS Electronic         Color analog sensors          Toys and games
Philips                Color digital sensors         PC video cameras
                       USB interface
Olympus Optical Co.    Color digital sensors         Security and surveillance
                       Color analog sensors          PC video cameras
Prochips Technology    Color digital sensors         PC video cameras
                       USB interface
Teksel/Kyocera         Color digital sensors         Cell phone accessory
Samsung                Color digital sensors         PC video cameras
                       USB interface
Mtek Vision            Color digital sensors         PC video cameras
                       USB interface
Viewquest Technologies Color digital sensors         Toys and games
                       USB interface                 PC video cameras
                                                     Personal digital assistant
                                                     cameras
Welch Allyn            Black and white analog        Bar code readers
                       sensors
                       Color analog sensors
X10 Wireless
  Technology, Inc.     Color analog sensors          Security and surveillance

                                  Distributors
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
World Peace            Color digital sensors         PC video cameras
 Industrial (Taiwan)   Black and white digital       Digital still cameras
                       Sensors                       Security and surveillance
                       Color analog sensors          General purpose cameras
                       USB interface

</TABLE>

     In many cases, our camera manufacturer customers outsource manufacturing
functions to third parties. In these cases we typically help these third party
manufacturers bring the design to production. Once the production is ready, we
sell our products to these third party manufacturers either directly or through
distributors. For example, Viewquest, a major manufacturer in Taiwan,
manufactures a personal digital assistant camera for Kodak. In many cases these
third party manufacturers may also introduce us to additional camera
manufacturers with whom they have relationships.


                                      10

<PAGE>

     In Fiscal Year 2001, approximately 71% of our revenues were derived from
camera manufacturers and their contract manufacturers. Our largest customer,
Creative, accounted for 14% of our total revenues. No other single camera
manufacturer customer represented more than 10% of total revenues.

     We have signed an agreement with Creative under which Creative has agreed
to purchase various products of ours which are used in personal computer video
cameras and digital still cameras. This agreement expires in February of 2002.
We have also entered into a software license agreement with Creative. Pursuant
to this agreement, we have granted to Creative a non-exclusive, royalty free
license to use our software in connection with Creative's manufacture of
products which incorporate our image sensors.

     In Fiscal Year 2001, approximately 29% of our revenues were from
distributors. The largest distributor was World Peace Industrial Co. Ltd., or
World Peace, who represented approximately 17% of total revenues. No other
single distributor represented more than 10% of total revenues. We have signed
agreements with most of our distributors, including World Peace.


Strategic Relationships
-----------------------

     We have established an informal strategic relationship with Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp., or TSMC, both in Taiwan and in the United
States. TSMC is one of our primary sources of wafer fabrication. This
relationship includes joint engineering projects aimed at improving production
yields, improving image quality and correlating final packaged chip testing and
wafer level testing. We provide extensive, in depth technical expertise on
image sensor design issues, which has allowed TSMC to develop an image sensor
production business. TSMC provides us with extensive, in depth technical
expertise on variations of the CMOS semiconductor fabrication process which
assists us in improving the design and production of our image sensors. We are
one of TSMC's largest customer for CMOS image sensors and in the past we have
received preferential capacity scheduling.

     We have signed an agreement with Powerchip Semiconductor Corp., or PSC, as
a second source for wafer fabrication. By working closely with PSC's engineers,
we have been able to design new image sensor products that take advantage of
PSC's memory chip fabrication processes. PSC's fabrication process gives us a
number of important improvements, including better current control for better
image quality, three-volt power for portable applications and more image sensor
chips per wafer. In return, we have assisted PSC in the image sensor
fabrication and the color filter application process business.

     We have several informal strategic relationships with key customers in the
development of new camera products incorporating our image sensors. By working
directly with key customers, we can help them take advantage of our image
sensors and can inform them of new developments so they can market their
products more quickly. By learning more about our customers' desires and
requirements we are able to plan and prioritize our product development
projects. These key customers include Creative, for PC video cameras and
digital still cameras, Alaris for PC video cameras, Viewquest for cameras for
toys, PC video cameras and personal digital assistant cameras, Teksel/Kyocera
for cameras for mobile telephones, Welch Allyn for cameras for bar code
readers, and X10 for cameras for home entertainment and surveillance cameras.


Sales and Marketing
-------------------

     We sell our products through a direct sales force and indirectly through
distributors and manufacturer's representatives. As of April 30, 2001, our
sales and marketing organizations had a total of 30 employees.  We also have 24
independent distributors and manufacturers' representatives, four of whom are
domestic and 20 of whom are located outside the United States.

     Our sales and marketing strategy in Fiscal Year 2001 was to achieve design
wins with key industry leaders who target mass market applications. We sold our
image sensors to camera manufacturers who market camera products under their
own brand. We also sold image sensors to large manufacturing companies that
produce camera products for others to market under different brand names.
Through our relationships, we have developed considerable expertise in the
design of consumer cameras. We have used that expertise to assist our customers
in developing their

                                      11

<PAGE>

products which incorporate our image sensors. We also have provided reference
designs and engineering design review and engineering product evaluation
testing and debugging services for our customers.


Technology
----------

     We have key technical competencies in analog signal processing design,
mixed signal circuit design, advanced CMOS image sensor design, automatic
testing and single chip semiconductor design.

   Analog Circuit Design

     We have in-house expertise to design sophisticated analog semiconductor
circuits. This expertise is unique because most semiconductor design engineers
today work in the area of digital circuit design. Our in house expertise has
allowed us to process the video data captured in the analog domain, which has
many significant advantages over digital processing. Analog processing works
directly on the original image signals without the loss of data typical with
conversion to digital processing. Analog circuits require considerably less
space which means we can design smaller chips with far less noise caused by
heat or cross talk than digital circuits. The image processing circuits take
approximately 20% to 30% of the space in our typical image sensor design,
leaving 70% to 80% for the image sensing array. Most CCD image sensors and
other competitive CMOS image sensor products convert the image signal to
digital as the very first step. In our product designs, conversion to a digital
signal is the last step taken before the output step rather than the first.
Analog processing is the key for integrating all the functions on a single chip
thereby taking full advantage of the benefits of CMOS technology.

   Mixed Analog/Digital Circuit Design

     We have developed extensive in house expertise in the technology of mixing
analog and digital signals in the same semiconductor design without suffering
the common problems of interference from noise caused by heat or crosstalk. We
use digital circuits in our image sensors to interface to the outside digital
world. We have developed a method of programming the analog processing circuits
which gives our customers extensive and flexible programming capability from
digitally based microprocessors and micro controllers.

   Advanced CMOS Image Sensor Design

     Our in house semiconductor design engineers are skilled in the design of
high speed, low power and mixed analog/digital CMOS image sensors. We use
advanced design techniques to develop high speed, highly integrated
semiconductors which can be fabricated using standard CMOS processes and which
can be manufactured using conventional low cost packages.

   Automatic Testing

     Automatic testing methods and equipment designed for conventional CMOS
devices are not sufficient for testing an image sensor. In addition to testing
all the normal logic and electrical functions, an optical test must be
performed on the image sensor. The sensor is turned on and captures a live
image, which is subsequently analyzed for quality and color. Our in house
expertise has allowed us to design automatic testing equipment, specifically
for CMOS image sensors. Using commercially available off the shelf modules and
components, we have designed and developed a complete microcomputer based
testing system that has automatic handling capability, an image source, a
lighting and lens system and automatic output sorting. This low cost system is
programmable so that testing criteria and testing methodology can be easily
changed and can be replicated to meet increased production requirements. The
system produces detailed reports on test results that are used for feedback to
our quality control and operations department. We currently use these systems
to deliver a high quality product at high production volumes.

   Single Chip Semiconductor Design

     Our expertise has allowed us to create a single chip CMOS image sensor.
Our single chip integrates the image capture, the image processing, the color
processing and conversion and output for either television or computers.


                                      12

<PAGE>

Research and Development
------------------------

     The internal design of our CMOS image sensors has been done in a modular
fashion. The major functions, such as the image capture, image sensor control
logic, color processing, analog output, digital output and programming control,
are stand alone circuits that can rapidly be modified or used as is in new
product developments. As a result, circuit improvements automatically migrate
to each new product, and the total development time and cost for new products
is greatly reduced.

     We use a team approach to design new products, which includes a senior
design engineer and additional engineers with specific design expertise. As of
April 30, 2001, we had a total of 45 employees in R&D, including 14 employees
in our core logic group responsible for image sensor design and development and
31 employees in our engineering systems group responsible for the design and
development of interface chips, software drivers, reference camera designs,
automated test equipment and customer engineering support services.

     We have invested, and expect that we will continue to invest, significant
funds on research and development. Our research and development expenses were
approximately $5.5 million in Fiscal Year 2001, $3.7 million in Fiscal Year
2000, and $3.3 million in the fiscal year ended April 30, 1999 or Fiscal Year
1999.


Intellectual Property
---------------------

     Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability
to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent,
copyright, trademark and trade secrets, as well as nondisclosure agreements and
other methods to protect various aspects of our image sensors such as the image
capture and the image processing circuit. As of April 30, 2001, we have been
issued 14 United States patents. We have also received nine foreign patents. We
have filed 24 additional United States patent applications, of which two have
been allowed. We have also filed 33 additional foreign patent applications, of
which one has been allowed. These patents and patent applications protect the
single chip image sensor design, noise reduction and cancellation circuits,
image enhancement, color processing, and applications technologies of our
semiconductor image sensors.

     In March 2000, we received a letter from Koninklijke Philips N.V., or
Philips, in which Philips claimed to have patent rights in a serial bus system
for data transmission, known as the I2C bus system.  Although we do not believe
any of our products infringe any Philips patent, we are currently discussing
possible royalty or licensing arrangements as a means of business resolution.
In the meantime, we have completed implementation of a new serial bus system
for our products.

     In March 1999, we received a letter from Photobit Corporation, requesting
that we review our products in light U.S. Patent No. 5,841,126.  Photobit did
not respond to our inquiry regarding this letter.  In June 2000, we received
additional correspondence from counsel for Photobit and California Institute of
Technology ("CalTech"), asserting infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,841,126,
U.S. Patent No. 5,886,659, U.S. Patent No. 5,990,506, U.S. Patent No. 6,005,619
and U.S. Patent No. 6,021,172, which relate to various aspects of image
sensors.  Photobit did not indicate which of our products were implicated nor
the manner in which it believed any of our products might infringe on any of
its patents.  Following unsuccessful licensing negotiations, we filed, on
October 13, 2000, an action in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California, civil action number CV-00-3791, against Photobit and CalTech,
seeking declaratory judgment that the five specifically identified patents (the
'126, '659, '506, '619 and '172 patents) are invalid and/or not infringed by
any of our products.  An answer to our complaint was filed by Photobit and
CalTech on November 22, 2000, including counterclaims alleging infringement as
to the '126, '506 and '619 patents only. Our answer to those counterclaims was
filed on December 12, 2000.  Upon being granted leave to amend by the district
court on June 6, 2001, OmniVision filed its amended complaint against Photobit
and CalTech on June 21, 2001, which includes claims of inequitable conduct,
patent misuse, unfair competition, and violation of the Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations Act.  Photobit and CalTech's response to the amended
complaint is due by late July.  Discovery is currently in process, and trial is
scheduled for July of 2002. We plan to vigorously protect our rights in this
matter.

                                      13

<PAGE>

     On February 7, 2001, Photobit and CalTech filed a complaint with the U.S.
International Trade Commission ("ITC"), based on the same three patents that
are the subject of the counterclaims in the Northern District of California
action (the '126, '506 and '619 patents) against us and against Creative Labs,
Inc. and X10 Wireless Technology, Inc, requesting that the ITC institute an
investigation pursuant to Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. Sec.
1337).  A supplement to the complaint was filed on February 27, 2001.  The ITC
voted to institute an investigation ("In the Matter of Certain CMOS Active
Pixel Image Sensors And Products Containing Same," Investigation No. 337-TA-
451), and a Notice of Investigation was published on March 12, 2001. By
instituting this investigation, the ITC has not yet made any decision on the
merits of the case.  In the event that the ITC ultimately determines that a
violation of Section 337 has occurred, the involved products may be precluded
from importation into and/or sale in the United States.  At present, the target
date for completion of the investigation is May 13, 2002.   As with the action
pending in the Northern District of California, we believe the claims of
Photobit and CalTech are meritless, and plan to vigorously defend ourselves in
the ITC investigation.


Manufacturing
-------------

   Wafer Fabrication

     Our semiconductor products are fabricated using standard CMOS processes,
which permit us to engage independent wafer foundries to fabricate our
semiconductors. By outsourcing our manufacturing to semiconductor foundries, we
are able to avoid the high cost of owning and operating a semiconductor wafer
fabrication facility. This allows us to focus our resources on the design,
development and marketing of our image sensors.

     We outsource our wafer manufacturing to TSMC and PSC. Our image sensors
are currently fabricated using a standard process at 0.25, 0.40, 0.50 and 0.60
microns. We continue to evaluate the benefits and feasibility of migrating to a
smaller circuit technology in order to reduce costs or to increase quality and
performance.

     We have signed agreements with Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., or Samsung,
and CoAsia Microelectronics Corp., Samsung's sales agent, under which Samsung
fabricates one of our interface chips on its standard fabrication line. Samsung
not only fabricates the wafers, but also packages the chips and performs a
final test, delivering a final product that can be shipped by CoAsia
Microelectronics Corp. directly to our customers when required. We also have a
signed agreement with Winbond Electronics Corp., or Winbond, to supply
interface chips to our customers.

   Color Filter Application

     A majority of our unit sales of image sensors for Fiscal Year 2001 are
color image sensors. These require a color filter to be applied to the wafer
before packaging. This color filter application uses a series of masks to place
red, green and blue dyes on the individual picture elements in an industry
standard Bayer pattern. As a final step, a micro lens is applied to each
picture element. We outsource the application of our color filters to Toppan
Printing Co., Ltd. in Japan and to TSMC in Taiwan.

   Assembly

     After wafer fabrication, and color filter application if required, the
wafers are diced into chips, which are then assembled into packages. Our
products are designed to use low cost standard packages that are widely in use
for optical sensor chips. These packages have a glass lid to allow light to
pass through to the image sensor array. We outsource the majority of our
packaging requirements to Alphatec in Thailand and Kyocera in Japan. We
continue to evaluate the benefits of using other vendors and other packaging
technologies in order to further reduce costs or increase quality or
performance.

   Testing

     High volume product testing is an important part of the production of
image sensors and is a substantial barrier to entry for many companies.
Production testing equipment designed for conventional CMOSs is not sufficient
for testing image sensors because an optical image must be captured and checked
in addition to checking the normal

                                      14


<PAGE>

logic and electrical functions. The few commercially available image sensor
testers are expensive and do not meet our high standards.

     We have designed our own automatic test equipment, using readily available
modules and components. These testers are computer based and have automatic
handling capability, a lighting and lens system, a changeable image source and
automatic output sorting by grade. The system is programmable so that testing
criteria and methodology can be changed easily to accommodate new products or
special testing requests. Our cost to build a system is substantially less than
that of commercially available testers. We can expand our production capability
by building additional systems at a low cost. Current testing capacity is in
excess of one million units per month.

     Our policy is to do a complete optical test of all our image sensors.
Currently, substantially all of our testing is done on our testing machines
installed at our headquarters facility in Sunnyvale, California, although a
very small amount of testing for a few older products is done by hand by a
third party. We continue to evaluate the benefits of making our testing
machines available to outside vendors who could perform our testing in order to
reduce costs.

     We use the reports from our testing machines to monitor the cause of any
failure in order to place responsibility with the appropriate vendor, i.e.
wafer fabrication, color filter application and packaging. Since image sensors
are optical products, the introduction of impurities is a major concern during
the color filter application and packaging process. We use test data to
establish yield goals at each step of the manufacturing process and take
remedial action as appropriate.

   Quality Assurance

     We focus on product quality through all stages of the design and
manufacturing process. Our designs are subjected to in depth circuit simulation
before being committed to silicon. Test wafers are fabricated and test chips
are packaged and live tested before a new product is committed to production.
Initial production runs are kept at a minimum until sufficient products have
completed the entire manufacturing and testing process and are delivered to and
approved by customers. Full production runs are committed only at that time.

     We qualify each of our vendors through a series of industry standard
environmental product stress tests, as well as an audit and an analysis of the
subcontractor's quality system and manufacturing capability. We also
participate in quality and reliability monitoring through each stage of the
production cycle by reviewing electrical parametric data from our foundries and
other subcontractors. We closely monitor wafer foundry production to obtain
consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels.


Competition
-----------

     We compete in an industry characterized by intense competition, rapid
technological changes, evolving industry standards, declining average selling
prices and rapid product obsolescence. We believe that the principal factors
affecting competition in our markets are time to market, quality, total system
design cost, availability of foundry capacity, customer support and reputation.
Our primary competition comes from CCD image sensor manufacturers and CMOS
image sensor manufacturers:

     o CCD Image Sensor Manufacturers. Image sensor manufacturers using CCD
       technology include a number of well established companies, particularly
       vertically integrated camcorder manufacturers. Our main competition
       comes from Cahners In-Stat Group believes the top six companies that
       collectively account for approximately 97.3% of the total CCD image
       sensor market. These six include Fuji, Matsushita, NEC, Sharp, Sony, and
       Toshiba; and

     o CMOS Image Sensor Manufacturers. Image sensor manufacturers using CMOS
       technology include a number of well established companies such as
       Agilent Technologies, Inc., ST Microelectronics, Conexant Systems, Inc.,
       Hyundai Electronics Industries Co. Ltd., Mitsubishi Electronic,
       Motorola, Inc., and Toshiba Corporation.  In addition, we compete with a
       large number of smaller companies including Zoran and Photobit
       Corporation.

                                      15

<PAGE>

     Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies
that have greater access to advanced wafer foundry capacity, substantially
greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources,
broader product lines, access to large customer bases and longer standing
relationships with suppliers and customers than we do.


Backlog
-------

     Sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders. Our backlog
includes only those customer orders for which we have accepted purchase orders
and assigned shipment dates within the upcoming twelve months. As of April 30,
2001 and 2000, our backlog was approximately $8.3 million and $23.7 million,
respectively. Although our backlog is typically filled within two to four
quarters, our current backlog is subject to changes in delivery schedules and
backlog may not necessarily be an indication of future revenue.


Employees
---------

     As of April 30, 2001 we had a total of 104 full time employees, 81 located
at our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California and 23 in foreign sales support
offices. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to
attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and management
personnel. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining
agreement, and we have never experienced any work stoppage. We believe that our
employee relations are good.


Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The following table sets forth, as of April 30, 2001, certain information
concerning our executive officers and directors:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

            Name             Age               Position
            ----             ---               --------
<S>                          <C>  <C>
Shaw Hong..................   63   Chief Executive Officer and Director
H. Gene McCown.............   65   Vice President of Finance and Chief
                                   Financial Officer
Robert J. Stroh............   61   Vice President of Strategic Marketing and
                                   Business Development
Raymond Wu.................   46   Executive Vice President and Director
Hank O'Hara (1)............   66   Vice President of Worldwide Sales
---------------------
<FN>
(1) Mr. O'Hara resigned his position with us effective May 25, 2001.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Shaw Hong, one of our cofounders, has served as one of our directors and
     ---------
as our Chief Executive Officer and President since May 1995. From January 1990
to April 1995, Mr. Hong was the President of HK Technology, Inc., an integrated
circuit design company. Mr. Hong holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from
Jiao Tong University in China and a M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Oregon
State University.

     H. Gene McCown has served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief
     --------------
 Financial Officer since July 1999. From July 1998 to January 1999, Mr. McCown
served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Innovative
Robotic Solutions, Inc, a manufacturer of semiconductor equipment. From July
1991 to July 1998, Mr. McCown served as Vice President of Finance and Chief
Financial Officer of Chrontel, Inc., a semiconductor manufacturer. Mr. McCown
holds a B.S. in Accounting from San Jose State University.

     Robert J. Stroh has served as our Vice President of Strategic Marketing
     ---------------
and Business Development since November 2000. From June 1998 to November 2000,
Mr. Stroh served as our Vice President of Sales and Marketing. From January
1997 to June 1998, Mr. Stroh served as our Director of Marketing and Sales.
From June 1993 to December 1996, Mr. Stroh founded and was president of Stroh
Golf Ventures, a company that conducted golf camps, Stroh Holdings LLC, an
Internet sales company, and Direct Product Network, Inc., an Internet sales


                                      16

<PAGE>

company. Mr. Stroh holds a M.B.A. from Indiana University and a B.S. in
Business from Pennsylvania State University.

     Raymond Wu, one of our cofounders, has served as one of our directors
     ----------
since May 1995 and as our Executive Vice President since October of 1999. From
July 1998 to October 1999, Mr. Wu served as our Vice President of Business
Development. From May 1995 to July 1998, Mr. Wu was the head of our Sales
department and our Engineering department. From January 1990 to April 1995, Mr.
Wu held various positions within the design and mechanical engineering
departments of HK Technology, Inc. Mr. Wu received a B.S. degree in Electrical
Engineering from Chung-Yuan University in Taiwan and a M.S. in Electrical
Engineering from Wayne State University.

     Hank O'Hara resigned as our Vice President of Worldwide Sales in May 2001.
     -----------
From April 2000 to May 2001, Mr. O'Hara served as our Vice President of
Worldwide Sales. From February 1997 to April 2000, Mr. O'Hara co-founded and
served as Vice President Sales and Marketing of Alacritech, a designer and
manufacturer of high performance networking boards. From January 1994 to
February 1997, he served as Vice President of Sales of Pericom Semiconductor, a
manufacturer of high performance digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits.
In addition, over the past 30 years, Mr. O'Hara has held sales and marketing
positions at various public companies. Mr. O'Hara received a B.S. in Mechanical
Engineering from California Polytechnical Institute at San Luis Obispo.
