ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

General

     Photronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Photronics") is one of the world's leading manufacturers of photomasks, which are high precision photographic quartz plates containing microscopic images of electronic circuits. Photomasks are a key element in the manufacture of semiconductors and are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers during the fabrication of integrated circuits and, to a lesser extent, other types of electrical components. The Company operates principally from 10 facilities, four of which are located in the United States, three in Europe and one each in Korea, Singapore and Taiwan.


     The Company is a Connecticut corporation, organized in 1969. Its principal executive offices are located at 1061 East Indiantown Road, Jupiter, Florida, 33477, telephone (561) 745-1222.


Fiscal 2002 and Recent Developments

     On December 12, 2001, the Company sold $200 million of 4.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2006 in a private offering pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Rule 144A. The notes are convertible into the Company's common stock at a conversion price equal to $37.00 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.


     In April 2002, the Company acquired an additional 28% of PKL LTD ("PKL"), a leading supplier of photomasks in Korea, for a total ownership of approximately 78% of PKL.


     On August 14, 2002 the Company implemented a plan to reduce its operating cost structure by reducing its work force in the United States by approximately 135 employees and by ceasing the manufacture of photomasks at its Milpitas, California facility. Total consolidation and related charges of $14.5 million were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2002. Of the total charge, $10.5 million was non-cash for the impairment in carrying value of fixed assets, $2.5 million of cash charges for severance and benefits for terminated employees that will be paid during their entitlement periods, and $1.5 million of cash charges for facilities closing costs as well as lease termination costs. Through November 3, 2002, cash charges of approximately $1.5 million had been expended.


     On December 10, 2002, the Company announced its operating results for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2002. During the latter half of 2001 and throughout 2002, the Company experienced a slow-down in new design releases for mature and high-end technology products and increased competitive pricing pressures for photomasks as a result of the rapid downturn in the global semiconductor industry. A more detailed description of the Company's 2002 operating results is contained in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Manufacturing Technology

     The Company manufactures photomasks, which are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers. The Company's photomasks are manufactured in accordance with circuit designs provided on a confidential basis by its customers. The typical manufacturing process for one of the Company's photomasks involves the receipt and conversion of circuit design data to manufacturing pattern data. A lithography system then exposes the circuit pattern onto the photomask blank. The exposed areas are dissolved and etched to produce that pattern on the photomask. The photomask is inspected for defects and conformity to the customer design data, any defects are repaired, any required pellicles (protective membranes) are applied and, after final inspection the photomask is shipped to the customer.


     The Company currently supports customers across the full spectrum of integrated circuit production technologies by manufacturing photomasks using electron beam or laser-based technologies and, to a significantly lesser degree, optical-based technologies. Electron beam and laser-based systems are the predominant technologies used for photomask manufacturing. These technologies are capable of producing the finer line resolution, tighter overlay and larger die size for the larger and more complex circuits currently being designed. Electron beam and laser generated photomasks can be

-3-


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


used with the most advanced processing techniques to produce VLSI (very large-scale integrated circuit) devices. The Company currently owns a number of electron beam and laser-based systems. The production of photomasks by the optical method is less expensive and precise. The optical method traditionally is to manufacture less complex and lower priced photomasks.


     The first several layers of photomasks sometimes are required to be delivered by the Company within 24 hours from the time it receives a customer's design data. The ability to manufacture high quality photomasks within short time periods is dependent upon efficient manufacturing methods, high yield and high equipment reliability. The Company believes that it meets these requirements by making significant investments in manufacturing and data processing systems and statistical process control methods to optimize the manufacturing process and reduce cycle times.


     Quality control is an integral part of the photomask manufacturing process. Photomasks are manufactured in temperature, humidity and particulate controlled clean rooms because of the high level of precision, quality and yields required. Each photomask is inspected several times during the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with customer specifications. The Company continues to make a substantial investment in equipment to inspect and repair photomasks and to ensure that customer specifications are met. After inspection and any necessary repair, the Company utilizes proprietary processes to clean the photomasks prior to shipment.


Sales and Marketing

     The market for photomasks primarily consists of domestic and foreign semiconductor manufacturers and designers, including a limited number of manufacturers who have the capability to manufacture photomasks. Generally, the Company and each of its customers engage in a qualification and correlation process before the Company becomes an approved supplier. Thereafter, the Company typically negotiates pricing parameters for a customer's orders based on the customer's specifications. Some prices may remain in effect for an extended period. In some instances, the Company enters into purchase arrangements, based on the understanding that, as long as the Company's performance is competitive, the Company will receive a specified percentage of that customer's photomask requirements.


     The Company conducts its sales and marketing activities primarily through a staff of full-time sales personnel and customer service representatives who work closely with the Company's management and technical personnel. In addition to the sales personnel at the Company's manufacturing facilities, the Company has sales offices throughout the United States, Europe and Asia.


     The Company supports international customers through both its domestic and foreign facilities. The Company considers its presence in international markets important to attracting new customers, providing global solutions to its existing customers and serving customers that utilize manufacturing foundries outside of the United States, principally in Asia. For a statement of the amount of net sales, operating income or loss, and identifiable assets attributable to each of the Company's geographic areas of operations, see Note 15 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


Customers


     The Company primarily sells its products to leading semiconductor manufacturers. The Company's largest customers during fiscal 2002 include the following:


Agere Systems Inc.
           
 National Semiconductor Corporation
 
ASM Lithography
  Philips Semiconductor Manuf., Inc.
 
Atmel Corp.
  Samsung
 
Conexant
  Seagate Technology
 
Hynix Semiconductor
  Silicon Integrated System Corp.
 
Intersil Corporation
  System Silicon Mfg.
 
LSI Logic Corp.
  ST Microelectronics, Inc.
 
Macronix International Co., Ltd.
  Texas Instruments Incorporated
 
Maxim Integrated Products 
  United Microelectronics Corp
 
Motorola Inc.
  Winbond Electronics Corp.
 


-4-


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     The Company, during fiscal year 2002, sold its products and services to approximately 600 customers. During fiscal 2002, one customer accounted for 10.4% of the Company's net sales. The Company's five largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for 36% of net sales in fiscal 2002. A significant decrease in the amount of sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the financial performance and business prospects of the Company.


Research and Development

     The Company conducts ongoing research and development activities in four of its advanced manufacturing locations covering all major regions represented by the Company's customer base, intended to maintain the Company's leadership in technology and manufacturing efficiency. Since fiscal 1994, the Company has increased its investment in research and development activities and current efforts include deep ultraviolet, phase-shift and optical proximity correction photomasks for advanced semiconductor manufacturing as well as masks for emerging technologies including masks for Fiber Bragg Gratings, MEMS, nanotechnology and next generation lithography ("NGL") "post-optical" lithographic technologies. Phase-shift and optical proximity correction photomasks use advanced materials, designs and lithography techniques for enhanced resolution of images on a semiconductor wafer. NGL technologies use new masking technologies for wafer patterning and are designed for the manufacture of integrated circuits with critical dimensions below that believed possible with currently utilized optical exposure methods. Examples of NGL technologies include Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography and Electron Projection Lithography. NGL manufacturing technologies are still under development and have not yet been adopted as standard production methods. Since March 1999, NGL research and development has been conducted in connection with our research and development venture with IBM, which was completed in fiscal 2002. The Company has incurred expenses of $30.2 million, $24.9 million and $20.7 million for research and development in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company believes that it owns or controls valuable proprietary information necessary for its business as presently conducted. Recently, the Company has either applied for or been granted patents pertaining to its business segment. The Company believes that its intellectual property is and will continue to be important to the Company's technical leadership in the field of photomasks.


Materials and Supplies


     Raw materials used by the Company generally include high precision quartz plates, which are used as photomask blanks, primarily obtained from Japanese suppliers (including Hoya Corporation ["Hoya"] and Ulcoat Corporation ["Ulcoat"]); pellicles, which are protective transparent cellulose membranes; electronic grade chemicals, which are used in the manufacturing process; and compacts, which are durable plastic containers in which photomasks are shipped. These materials are generally sourced from a limited number of suppliers and the Company is not dependent on any one supplier for its raw materials. The Company believes that its utilization of a select group of strategic suppliers enables it to access the most advanced material technologically available.

     The Company has established purchasing arrangements with Hoya and Ulcoat, and it is expected that the Company will purchase substantially all of its photomask blanks from these suppliers as long as their price, quality, delivery and service are competitive.


     The Company relies on a select number of equipment suppliers to develop and supply the equipment used in the photomask manufacturing process. Although the Company has been able to obtain equipment on a timely basis, the inability to obtain equipment when required could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. The Company also relies on these and additional suppliers to develop future generations of manufacturing systems to support the Company's requirements.

Backlog

     The first several levels of a set of photomasks for a circuit pattern sometimes are required to be shipped within 24 hours of receiving a customer's design. Because of the short period between order and shipment dates (typically from one day to two weeks) for a significant amount of the Company's sales, the dollar amount of current backlog is not considered to be a reliable indication of future sales volume.


-5-


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Competition


     The photomask industry is highly competitive and most of the Company's customers utilize more than one photomask supplier. The Company's ability to compete depends primarily upon the consistency of product quality and timeliness of delivery, as well as pricing, technical capability and service. The Company also believes that proximity to customers is an important factor in certain markets. Certain competitors have considerably greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company believes that it is able to compete effectively because of its dedication to customer service, its investment in state-of-the-art photomask equipment and facilities and its experienced technical employees.


     Since the mid-1980s there has been a decrease in the number of independent manufacturers as a result of independents being acquired or discontinuing operations. The Company believes that entry into the market by a new independent manufacturer would require a major investment of capital, a significant period of time to establish a commercially viable operation and additional time to attain meaningful market share and achieve profitability.


     The Company estimates that for the type of photomasks it manufactures in North America, the size of the total market (captive and merchant) is approximately $500 million, and the rest of the world approximately $2.0 billion. The Company believes that it has a larger share of the United States market than any other photomask manufacturer and, as a result of its acquisition of PKL, that it is one of the largest photomask manufacturers in the world. Competitors in the United States include DuPont Photomasks, Inc., and in international markets, Compugraphics, Dai Nippon Printing, DuPont Photomasks, Hoya, Taiwan Mask Corp. and Toppan. In addition, some of the Company's customers, such as IBM, NEC, TSMC and Samsung, possess their own captive facilities for manufacturing photomasks. Also, certain semiconductor manufacturers market their photomask manufacturing services to outside customers as well as to their internal organization.


Employees

     As of December 31, 2002 the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries employed approximately 1,580 persons on a full-time basis. The Company believes it offers competitive compensation and other benefits and that its employee relations are good. Except for employees in the United Kingdom, none of its employees are represented by a union.
