ITEM 1.  BUSINESS


General

     Photronics, Inc. is one of the world's leading manufacturers of photomasks, which are high precision photographic quartz plates containing microscopic images of electronic circuits. Photomasks are a key element in the manufacture of semiconductors and are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers during the fabrication of integrated circuits and, to a lesser extent, other types of electrical components. The Company operates principally from nine manufacturing facilities, three of which are located in the United States, three in Europe and one each in Korea, Singapore and Taiwan.


     Photronics, Inc. is a Connecticut corporation, organized in 1969. Its principal executive offices are located at 15 Secor Road, Brookfield, Connecticut 06804, telephone (203) 775-9000. Photronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company." The Company's website is located at http://www.photronics.com. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained or incorporated in the Company's website is not part of these documents.


Fiscal 2003 Developments

     In March 2003, the Company implemented a plan to consolidate its North American manufacturing network in order to increase capacity utilization and manufacturing efficiencies. Total consolidation and related charges of $42.0 million were recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2003. Components of the charge include $3.4 million for workforce reductions, $4.4 million for facility lease payments, and $34.2 million of non-cash charges for the impairment in carrying value of fixed assets. Through November 2, 2003, cash charges of $2.7 million had been expended.


     On April 15, 2003, the Company sold $150.0 million, 2.25% convertible subordinated notes due 2008 in a private offering pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. These notes were subsequently registered for resale pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3. Those notes are convertible into the Company's common stock at a conversion price of $15.89 per share. Net proceeds from the issuance amounted to approximately $145.2 million. On June 2, 2003, a portion of the net proceeds was used to redeem all $62.1 million of the Company's outstanding 6% convertible subordinated notes due 2004. Pursuant to the terms of the related indenture, the 6% convertible subordinated notes were redeemed at 100.8571% of the principal amount plus accrued interest of $1.9 million for an aggregate redemption price of $64.5 million, including a premium of $0.5 million. An early extinguishment charge of $0.9 million was incurred on the redemption of the 6% convertible subordinated notes.


     The Company's $100 million revolving credit facility, which expires in July 2005, was amended on April 9, 2003 to relax certain financial covenants as a result of the Company's March 2003 consolidation plan and April 2003 issuance of $150.0 million convertible subordinated notes.


Manufacturing Technology

     The Company manufactures photomasks, which are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers. The Company's photomasks are manufactured in accordance with circuit designs provided on a confidential basis by its customers. The typical manufacturing process for a photomask involves the receipt and conversion of circuit design data to manufacturing pattern data. A lithography system then exposes the circuit pattern onto the photomask blank. The exposed areas are dissolved and etched to produce that pattern on the photomask. The photomask is inspected for defects and conformity to the customer design data, any defects are repaired, any required pellicles (protective membranes) are applied and, after final inspection, the photomask is shipped to the customer.


-3-


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     The Company currently supports customers across the full spectrum of integrated circuit production technologies by manufacturing photomasks using electron beam or laser-based technologies and, to a significantly lesser degree, optical-based technologies. Electron beam and laser-based systems are the predominant technologies used for photomask manufacturing. These technologies are capable of producing the finer line resolution, tighter overlay and larger die size for the larger and more complex circuits currently being designed. Electron beam and laser generated photomasks can be used with the most advanced processing techniques to produce the most advanced semiconductor devices intended for use in an array of products. These include devices used for microprocessors, memory, telecommunications and related applications. The Company currently owns a number of electron beam and laser-based systems. The production of photomasks by the optical method is less expensive and precise. The optical method traditionally is used to manufacture less complex and lower priced photomasks.


     The first several layers of photomasks sometimes are required to be delivered by the Company within 24 hours from the time it receives a customer's design data. The ability to manufacture high quality photomasks within short time periods is dependent upon efficient manufacturing methods, high yield and high equipment reliability. The Company believes that it meets these requirements by making significant investments in manufacturing and data processing systems and statistical process control methods to optimize the manufacturing process and reduce cycle times.


     Quality control is an integral part of the photomask manufacturing process. Photomasks are manufactured in temperature, humidity and particulate controlled clean rooms because of the high level of precision, quality and yields required. Each photomask is inspected several times during the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with customer specifications. The Company continues to make substantial investments in equipment to inspect and repair photomasks and to ensure that customer specifications are met. After inspection and any necessary repair, the Company utilizes proprietary processes to clean the photomasks prior to shipment.


     The vast majority of photomasks produced for the semiconductor industry employ geometries of 130 nanometer or larger. At these geometries, the Company can produce full lines of photomasks and there is no significant technology employed by the Company's competitors that is not available to the Company. Very recently, a limited amount of semiconductor fabrication has begun in the 90 nanometer range. The Company is currently capable of producing a broad range of photomasks at these smaller geometries. However, as is typical of industries in the midst of technological change, some of the Company's competitors may be able to achieve higher manufacturing yields than the Company when producing these smaller geometry photomasks, in part because these competitors may have completed more cycles of learning than the Company in this area and in part because of the Company's need to replicate production of these complex photomasks at its many locations world-wide. The Company believes that these cases are few and are not material to its business.


Sales and Marketing

     The market for photomasks primarily consists of domestic and foreign semiconductor manufacturers and designers, including a limited number of manufacturers who have the capability to manufacture photomasks. Generally, the Company and each of its customers engage in a qualification and correlation process before the Company becomes an approved supplier. Thereafter, the Company typically negotiates pricing parameters for a customer's orders based on the customer's specifications. Some prices may remain in effect for an extended period. In some instances, the Company enters into purchase arrangements, based on the understanding that, as long as the Company's performance is competitive, the Company will receive a specified percentage of that customer's photomask requirements.


     The Company conducts its sales and marketing activities primarily through a staff of full-time sales personnel and customer service representatives who work closely with the Company's management and technical personnel. In addition to the sales personnel at the Company's manufacturing facilities, the Company has sales offices throughout the United States, Europe and Asia.


     The Company supports international customers through both its domestic and foreign facilities. The Company considers its presence in international markets important to attracting new customers, providing global solutions to its existing customers and serving customers that utilize manufacturing foundries outside of the United States, principally in Asia. For a statement of the amount of net sales, operating income or loss, and identifiable assets attributable to each of the Company's geographic areas of operations, see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.


-4-


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Customers


     The Company primarily sells its products to leading semiconductor manufacturers. The Company's largest customers during fiscal 2003 include the following:


Agere Systems Inc.
                
 Polarfab LLC
 
Atmel Corp.
  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
 
Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing, Ltd.
  Seagate Technology, Inc.
 
Hynix Semiconductor
  Silicon Integrated System Corp.
 
Intersil Corporation
  Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
 
Jazz Semiconductor, Inc.
  ST Microelectronics, Inc.
 
Macronix International Co., Ltd.
  Systems on Silicon Mfg. Co., Pte Ltd.
 
Motorola Inc.
  Texas Instruments Incorporated
 
National Semiconductor Corporation
  United Microelectronics Corp.
 
Philips Semiconductor Manuf., Inc.
  Winbond Electronics Corp.
 


     During fiscal year 2003, the Company sold its products and services to approximately 600 customers. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. accounted for approximately 16% and 10% of the Company's net sales in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company's five largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 36% of net sales in fiscal 2003 and 2002. A significant decrease in the amount of sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the financial performance and business prospects of the Company.


Research and Development

     The Company conducts ongoing research and development activities in four of its advanced manufacturing locations covering all major regions represented by the Company's customer base, intended to maintain the Company's leadership in technology and manufacturing efficiency. Since fiscal 1994, the Company has increased its investment in research and development activities and current efforts include deep ultraviolet, phase-shift and optical proximity correction photomasks for advanced semiconductor manufacturing as well as masks for emerging technologies including masks for Immersion Lithography, Fiber Bragg Gratings, MEMS and nanotechnology. Phase-shift and optical proximity correction photomasks use advanced materials, designs and lithography techniques for enhanced resolution of images on a semiconductor wafer. The Company also conducts research and development activities in modeling and simulation necessary for effective integration of the most advanced mask-based optical lithography solutions. Currently these activities are focused on 90 nanometer and 65 nanometer node lithography, but the Company believes these core competencies will continue to be a critical part of semiconductor manufacturing as optical lithography continues to scale device capabilities below 65 nanometer. The Company has incurred expenses of $30.0 million, $30.2 million and $24.9 million for research and development in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company believes that it owns or controls valuable proprietary information necessary for its business as presently conducted. Recently, the Company has either applied for or been granted patents pertaining to its business segment. The Company believes that its intellectual property is and will continue to be important to the Company's technical leadership in the field of photomasks.


Patents


     The Company owns or has rights to 13 patents in the United States. The general subject matter of these patents relates to the manufacture of photomasks themselves and the use of photomasks to manufacture other products. The expiration dates of these patents range from 2011 to 2022. While the Company believes that its intellectual property is and will continue to be important to the Company's technical leadership in the field of photomasks, the Company's operations are not dependent on any one individual patent. The Company protects its intellectual property rights regarding products and manufacturing processes through patents and trade secrets and the Company also relies on non-disclosure agreements with employees and vendors to protect its proprietary processes.


-5-


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Materials and Supplies


     Raw materials used by the Company generally include high precision quartz plates, which are used as photomask blanks, primarily obtained from Japanese suppliers including Hoya Corporation, or Hoya, and Ulcoat USA, Incorporated, or Ulcoat; pellicles, which are protective transparent cellulose membranes; electronic grade chemicals, which are used in the manufacturing process; and compacts, which are durable plastic containers in which photomasks are shipped. These materials are generally sourced from a limited number of suppliers and the Company is not dependent on any one supplier for its raw materials. The Company believes that its utilization of a select group of strategic suppliers enables it to access the most advanced material technologically available.


     The Company has established purchasing arrangements with Hoya and Ulcoat, and the Company expects that it will purchase substantially all of its photomask blanks from these suppliers as long as their price, quality, delivery and service are competitive. On an ongoing basis, the Company continues to consider additional supplier sources.


     The Company relies on a limited number of equipment suppliers to develop and supply the equipment used in the photomask manufacturing process. Although the Company has been able to obtain equipment on a timely basis, the inability to obtain equipment when required could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. The Company also relies on these and additional suppliers to develop future generations of manufacturing systems to support the Company's requirements.


Backlog


     The first several levels of a set of photomasks for a circuit pattern at times are required to be shipped within 24 hours of receiving a customer's design. Because of the short period between order and shipment dates (typically from one day to two weeks) for a significant amount of the Company's sales, the dollar amount of current backlog is not considered to be a reliable indication of future sales volume.


International Operations


      International sales, which exclude export sales, were approximately 59%, 50% and 36% of the Company's sales in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company believes that maintaining significant international operations requires it to have, among other things, a local presence in the markets in which it operates. This requires a significant investment in financial, management, operational and other resources.


     Operations outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to generate sales outside the United States and, consequently, on its business and results of operations.


Competition


     The photomask industry is highly competitive and most of the Company's customers utilize more than one photomask supplier. The Company's ability to compete depends primarily upon the consistency of product quality and timeliness of delivery, as well as pricing, technical capability and service. The Company also believes that proximity to customers is an important factor in certain markets. Certain competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than the Company. The Company believes that consistency of product quality and timeliness of delivery are the principal factors considered by customers in selecting their photomask suppliers. The Company's inability to meet these requirements could adversely affect its sales. The Company believes that it is able to compete effectively because of its dedication to customer service, its investment in state-of-the-art photomask equipment and facilities and its experienced technical employees.


-6-


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Further, since the mid-1980s, there has been a decrease in the number of independent manufacturers as a result of independents being acquired or discontinuing operations. The Company believes that entry into the market by a new independent manufacturer would require a major investment of capital, a significant period of time to establish a commercially viable operation and additional time to attain meaningful market share and achieve profitability.


     The Company estimates that for the types of photomasks it manufactures in North America, the size of the total market (captive and merchant) is approximately $500 million and the rest of the world is estimated to be approximately $2.0 billion. The Company believes that as a result of its acquisition of PKL LTD, it is one of the largest photomask manufacturers in the world. Competitors include Compugraphics, Inc., Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd., DuPont Photomasks, Inc., Hoya Corporation, Taiwan Mask Corporation, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and Toppan Chungwha Electronics. The Company also competes with semiconductor manufacturers' captive photomask manufacturing operations. The Company expects to face continued competition from these and other suppliers in the future. In the past, competition led to pressure to reduce prices, which the Company believes contributed to the decrease in the number of independent manufacturers. This pressure to reduce prices may continue in the future. In addition, some of the Company's customers, such as International Business Machines Corporation, NEC Corporation, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., possess their own captive facilities for manufacturing photomasks. Also, certain semiconductor manufacturers market their photomask manufacturing services to outside customers as well as to their internal organizations.


Employees

     As of December 31, 2003, the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries employed approximately 1,420 persons on a full-time basis. The Company believes it offers competitive compensation and other benefits and that its employee relations are good. Except for employees in the United Kingdom, none of its employees are represented by a union.
