ITEM 1.  Business

PMC-Sierra,  Inc.  designs,  develops,  markets  and  supports  high-performance
semiconductor   networking  solutions.   Our  mission  is  to  provide  superior
high-speed  internetworking  semiconductor solutions to enable the restructuring
of the global information infrastructure.

We are a leading supplier of high-performance  integrated circuits,  principally
used by equipment manufacturers in the telecommunications industry. We sell more
than 100 different products to the world's leading equipment manufacturers,  who
in turn supply their equipment to international and regional  telecommunications
service  providers.  Our  products  are  deployed  in  equipment  that  is  used
throughout the global network infrastructure.  We diversify our efforts across a
broad range of applications  leveraging our intellectual  property and expertise
in communications technologies.

PMC-Sierra   was   incorporated   in  the  State  of   California  in  1983  and
reincorporated  in the State of Delaware in 1997. Our Common Stock trades on the
Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "PMCS" and is included in the Nasdaq-100
and the S&P 500 indices.

Our fiscal year ends on the last Sunday of the calendar year.  Fiscal years 2001
and 1999 each consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2000 consisted of 53 weeks. For
ease of presentation, we have referred to December 31 as our fiscal year end for
all years.

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  "PMC-Sierra",  "PMC", "the Company",  "us",
"our" or "we", includes PMC-Sierra, Inc. and all of our subsidiary companies.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual  Report and the  portions  of our Proxy  Statement  incorporated  by
reference  into this  Annual  Report  contain  forward-looking  statements  that
involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as "anticipates", "believes",
"plans", "expects",  "future", "intends", "may", "will", "should",  "estimates",
"predicts",  "potential",  "continue"  and similar  expressions to identify such
forward-looking  statements.  These forward-looking  statements include, but are
not  limited to,  statements  under  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations".

These  forward-looking  statements  apply  only as of the  date  of this  Annual
Report.   We  undertake  no  obligation   to  publicly   update  or  revise  any
forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result  of new  information,  future
events or otherwise.  In light of these risks,  uncertainties,  and assumptions,
the forward-looking  events discussed in this report might not occur. Our actual
results could differ materially from those anticipated in these  forward-looking
statements  for many  reasons,  including the risks we face as described in this
Annual  Report and readers are  cautioned  not to place undue  reliance on these
forward-looking  statements,  which reflect management's analysis only as of the
date hereof.  Such  forward-looking  statements  include statements as to, among
others:

                                       2
<PAGE>

o  customer networking product inventory levels, needs and order levels;

o  revenues;

o  the degree to which our future  revenues  are booked and  shipped  within the
   same reporting period, or "turns business";

o  gross profit;

o  research and development expenses;

o  marketing, general and administrative expenditures;

o  interest and other income;

o  capital resources sufficiency;

o  capital expenditures;

o  restructuring activities, expenses and associated annualized savings; and

o  our business outlook.

This discussion  contains  forward-looking  statements that are subject to known
and unknown  risks,  uncertainties  and other  factors that may cause our actual
results,  levels of  activity,  performance,  achievements  and  prospects to be
materially  different  from those  expressed or implied by such  forward-looking
statements.  These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others,
those  identified  under "Factors That You Should Consider  Before  Investing In
PMC-Sierra" and elsewhere in this Annual Report.

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

During the 1990's, the Internet  experienced enormous growth as more households,
enterprises and corporations connected to and increased their utilization of the
Internet.  Traffic on the network  continued to increase due to a growing number
of  web-based  applications  (such  as  e-commerce,  e-mail,  videoconferencing,
webcasting,  virtual private networks and networked storage).  Higher volumes of
data are being  transmitted  between  local  area  networks  (LANs),  metro area
networks  (MANs)  and wide area  networks  (WANs) as a result of this  increased
connectivity and usage of the Internet.

The  growth  in  data  traffic  placed  increasing   pressure  on  the  existing
telecommunications network infrastructure , which was originally constructed for
voice  communication  rather  than  data  transmission.  Many  of the  incumbent
telephone  companies (such as AT&T, Sprint,  WorldCom,  NTT, British Telecom and
Deutsche  Telekom)  and  Regional  Bell  Operating  Companies  (such as Verizon,
BellSouth, and SBC) began investing in data networks to meet the growing demands
of their  customers.  At the same time,  deregulation of the  telecommunications
industry  and  privatization  of many  European  carriers  resulted in increased
market competition. The abundance of capital available in the public and private
markets also  accelerated  a build out of new network  infrastructure.  Numerous
competitive  carriers were launched with the intention of capturing  significant
share of (i)  long-haul  and  ultra  long-haul  data  traffic  (such  as  Global
Crossing,  Level 3, Williams); and (ii) the local/regional data markets (such as
Covad, Northpoint and RhythmsNet). This caused a significant increase in capital
spending on networking equipment by both the incumbent and competitive carriers.

During  this  period  of  rapid  expansion,  our  customers  - - the  networking
equipment companies ("OEMs") - - placed increased pressure on their suppliers to
ensure they had the components  needed to fulfill the expected growth in demand.
With many of the semiconductor  foundries at full capacity at the time, the OEMs
often  ordered  more devices  than  necessary in an attempt to secure  component
delivery.  This  resulted in inventory  levels  expanding at the OEMs,  contract
manufacturers, distributors and component suppliers at a faster rate than sales.

                                       3
<PAGE>

This environment  changed suddenly at the end of 2000.  Capital markets began to
tighten,  many e-commerce  businesses  failed,  and the overall economy began to
slow  down.  Many  of the  competitive  carriers  who  were  unable  to  attract
sufficient customers to sustain their operations experienced financial hardship,
and in many cases were acquired or went into receivership. Many of the incumbent
carriers realized that increasing capital  expenditures on networking  equipment
as a percentage  of total  revenue was  unsustainable.  This resulted in a rapid
slowdown in total capital spending on networking  equipment across the industry,
which in turn  resulted in fewer  orders for our  customers'  equipment.  By the
first half of 2001,  most of our customers had  recognized  that rapid growth in
demand was over. As revenues declined, a large number of our customers announced
corporate   restructurings  and  inventory  write-downs  and  cancelled  various
equipment programs.

Due to this market  downturn,  we experienced a significant drop in sales of our
products.  The  impact  of the  downturn  was  magnified  by the high  levels of
inventory that existed at our distributors, the contract manufacturers,  and the
OEMs at the  beginning  of 2001.  As a result of the  decrease in demand for our
products, we implemented two restructuring plans in 2001. We announced the first
restructuring  in March 2001 when we terminated  223  employees,  consolidated a
number of facilities,  and cancelled certain development  projects. We announced
the second  restructuring  in October  2001 when we  terminated  341  employees,
consolidated   additional  facilities,   and  cancelled  additional  development
projects.   The  two  restructurings  reduced  our  workforce  by  approximately
one-third from our peak level in 2001. These  restructurings  have significantly
lowered our  operating  expenses and cost  structure  going  forward (for a more
detailed  description of the two  restructurings  see  "Restructuring  and other
special  charges" in the  Management's  Discussion and Analysis  section of this
report).

Despite the industry downturn,  Internet traffic  reportedly  continues to grow.
Industry  analysts  estimate that total data traffic on the Internet  could grow
annually   between  100%  and  300%  each  year.   Moreover,   the  adoption  of
next-generation  wireless  handsets  (providing voice as well as text messaging,
web connectivity,  and global  positioning) is expected to drive additional data
traffic through the network infrastructure in the future.

For many of the incumbent and regional service  providers,  data traffic and the
associated revenue remains a key growth driver for their operations.  To capture
a growing portion of this market, service providers are continuing to transition
their networks from voice-centric to data-centric systems. At the same time, the
market remains  competitive  as many cable and satellite  operators are offering
high-speed  connectivity  services as well. In this environment,  it is critical
for service  providers to build their  networks  with more  efficient  equipment
enabling them to lower operating  costs while handling the increasing  amount of
traffic.

In simple terms, the Internet is a hybrid series of networks comprised of copper
wires,  coaxial cables, and fiber optic cables.  These networks carry high-speed
data traffic in the form of electrical and optical  signals that are transmitted
and received by complex networking  equipment.  To ensure this equipment and the
various networks can easily  communicate with each other, the OEMs and makers of
communications  semiconductors have developed numerous communications  standards
and protocols for the industry.  These  communications  protocols make it easier
for  complex  high-speed  data  traffic in the form of  electrical  and  optical
signals  to  be  sent  and  received   reliably  and  efficiently  -  -  whether
intra-office, across the country, or internationally.

                                       4
<PAGE>

One industry  standard that packages  information  into a fixed-size cell format
for  transportation  across networks is ATM or Asynchronous  Transfer Mode. Many
service  providers  deploy  equipment that handles this protocol  because it can
support voice, video, data, and multimedia applications simultaneously.

Another  established  industry  standard is called SONET or Synchronous  Optical
Network for data  communication  over fiber optic  systems.  This is used in the
Americas  and parts of Asia,  with the  equivalent  standard  in the rest of the
world being SDH or  Synchronous  Digital  Hierarchy.  Many of the  long-haul and
ultra long-haul fiber optic systems operate at higher speeds such as 10 gigabits
per second. In the metro area of the network,  signals are transmitted primarily
at rates between 155 megabits per second and 2.5 gigabits per second.

In addition to using SONET to increase  the  bandwidth in their  networks,  many
system  operators  have also  deployed  equipment  that uses dense wave division
multiplexing.  Rather than  transmitting  a single  light signal over an optical
fiber,  dense wave division  multiplexing  allows many  different  light signals
(each of a different wavelength) to be transmitted simultaneously.  By deploying
this technique at higher transmission rates, carriers have increased capacity to
move more signals across transmission lines.

In some service  provider  networks,  a traffic  bottleneck  can occur where the
high-speed  long-haul traffic is handed off to networking equipment in the metro
area. In general, less investment has been made to enhance the infrastructure in
the metro area and as a result, many of these systems have insufficient capacity
to handle the increased traffic.

In response, many OEMs are designing faster and more complex equipment to handle
the higher  volumes in the network.  This  equipment must be able to accommodate
various  protocols  and  formats,  including  cell-based  ATM  and  packet-based
Internet  Protocol (IP). While IP packets are larger and can hold more data than
ATM cells,  service providers can have difficulty  providing the same quality of
service with IP because it is not optimized for  time-sensitive  signals such as
video and voice services.

Another  protocol  that is used  extensively  in local area  networks and is now
being  deployed  in the wide area  network is  Ethernet.  Because  many  systems
operators are familiar with Ethernet, it is now transitioning into the wide area
of  the  network  at  higher  speeds  so  that  Ethernet  packets  can  be  sent
inter-office in a more efficient manner.

To accommodate these different  protocols and growing demand for services,  many
service  providers  are  requiring  OEMs to  provide  more  complex,  integrated
solutions  in a shorter time  period.  This,  coupled with rising cost of custom
semiconductors,   has   resulted   in  the  OEMs   outsourcing   more  of  their
communications  integrated circuit requirements to companies such as PMC-Sierra.
At the same time, some of the OEMs have undergone  corporate  restructurings and
have fewer  resources  and technical  staff to dedicate to  internally  designed
custom solutions.

                                       5
<PAGE>

By  leveraging  the  knowledge  and  technical  expertise of  companies  such as
PMC-Sierra, the OEMs are able to focus their efforts on differentiating factors.
In many cases,  it can take several  years before a new silicon chip or chip set
can be designed,  manufactured,  tested,  and released to full  production for a
customer.  It is essential,  therefore,  that the companies like PMC-Sierra that
develop the chips to be  incorporated  into the OEM equipment  work very closely
with their OEM customers so that together they can optimally  solve the needs of
the service providers.


PRODUCTS

We  have  more  than  100  revenue-producing  products  in  our  portfolio.  Our
networking    products    are    communications    semiconductors,     including
microprocessors,  that are used in different  types of  equipment  that form the
internet  infrastructure.  Our  non-networking  segment is comprised of a single
chip used in a consumer medical device.

Networking Products

Our products are sold into three areas of the  telecommunications  network:  the
Access,  Metro  and  Enterprise  areas.  We  design  many of our  products  with
standardized  interfaces  between chips so that our customers can easily develop
and implement solutions involving multiple PMC-Sierra products.

The following briefly describes the Access, Metro and Enterprise portions of the
internet  infrastructure  and some typical  equipment that may include our chips
and chipsets. Due to the complexity of the telecommunications network, it is not
possible to sharply delineate networking functions or markets. In addition, many
of our products may be used in multiple classes of networking equipment that are
deployed  across all of the market  areas  identified  below,  while some of our
other  products  have  highly  specialized   applications.   For  example,   our
microprocessors can be used in many networking equipment applications, while our
Paladin  chip may only be used in wireless  base station  applications.  In some
situations,  different  OEMs  might  use our  chips  or  chipsets  in  equipment
addressing more than one of the market areas noted below.

o    Access:  this  area  of  the   telecommunications   network  infrastructure
     encompasses  technologies  that connect the home or office to the internet.
     This area includes wired and wireless networking  equipment that aggregates
     transmissions  from the home or office and  connects  to the metro and wide
     area  networks.  For  example,  our  devices  would be  deployed in digital
     subscriber  line access  multiplexers,  wireless  base  stations,  add-drop
     multiplexers  (which add and drop  signals and streams of data from optical
     networks) and switches (which direct the data traffic to other destinations
     within the network).

o    Metro:  the  metro,  or  metro,  area  of the  internet  infrastructure  is
     predominantly a fiber-based network that provides high-speed communications
     and data transfer  over a city center or local region.  This portion of the
     network  manages  traffic inside its own region and manages traffic between
     the access and long-haul transport networks for inter-city or international
     transmission. Our products are used in metro equipment such as switches and
     routers that gather and process  signals in different  protocols,  and then
     transmit  them to the  next  destination  as  quickly  and  efficiently  as
     possible.

                                       6
<PAGE>

o    Enterprise: this area of the network includes equipment that is deployed in
     the home or office for data  communications  and other  local area  network
     applications. Our products are used in equipment such as networked printers
     in the office or home, as well as switches and storage  devices that enable
     data to be  transferred  to local  telecommunications  networks and storage
     area networks.

Our chips and chipsets can also be divided into the broadly  defined  functional
categories  identified  below. As with  descriptions of the network,  particular
categories may overlap and a device may be present in more than one category. In
addition,  some products,  particularly  multiple chip sets, integrate different
functions and could be classified in one or more categories.  For example,  some
of our products both convert  high-speed analog signals to digital signals,  and
also split or combine various transmission signals.

o    Line  interface  units:  these devices,  also referred to as  transceivers,
     transmit and receive signals over a physical medium such as wire,  cable or
     fiber.   The  line   interface   unit   determines  the  speed  and  timing
     characteristics  of the  signals,  and may also  convert them from a serial
     stream of data into a parallel stream before they are further processed for
     transmission to the next destination.

o    Framers & mappers: before the data can be sent to the next destination,  it
     must be converted into a proper format for transmission in the network. For
     example,  the  framing  function  arranges  the bits  into  different  size
     formats,  commonly referred to as "cell" or "packet" formats,  and attaches
     the  appropriate  information  to the  formats to ensure  they reach  their
     destinations. In turn, this data may be inserted into other frames, such as
     SONET frames, for transmission across high-speed fiber optics.

o    Packet & cell  processors:  these devices  examine the contents of cells or
     packets and  performs  various  management  and  reporting  functions.  For
     instance,  a  switch  or  router  may use a  packet  or cell  processor  to
     determine  if a signal is voice or video in order to  allocate  the  proper
     amount of bandwidth.  Service providers can use information gathered by the
     cell or packet processor to determine a customers' network usage and charge
     the appropriate service fee.

o    Traffic managers & switch fabrics: traffic managers organize,  schedule and
     queue  cells  and  packets  into  and  out  of  switches.   Switch  fabrics
     interconnect  the wires and fibers,  allowing  the data to be routed to its
     intended destination.

o    Serializers/Deserializers:  these devices convert  networking  traffic from
     slower speed  parallel  streams  into higher speed serial  streams and visa
     versa.  OEMs  use  serial  streams  to  reduce  networking  equipment  line
     connections.  Conversely,  OEMs use  parallel  streams to allow them to use
     lower cost traffic management technologies.

o    Microprocessors:  these devices  perform the high-speed  computations  that
     help  identify  and  control  the  flow of  signals  and  data in the  many
     different types of network equipment used in the communications, enterprise
     and consumer markets.

Our products help OEMs both aggregate and  disaggregate  network traffic at high
and low speeds. As signals move through the network, carriers aggregate millions
of slow-speed  incoming signals through access devices into a few high-speed and
high-capacity  signals. For example,  slower-speed access lines such as T1 lines
(operating  at 1.54  megabits  per  second) are  aggregated  and  streamed  into
high-speed lines (such as optical  transmission at 2.5 gigabits per second). The
wide  range of  products  we make  operate  at  different  speeds in many of the
product categories listed above.

                                       7
<PAGE>


Non-Networking Products

In 1996,  we announced our decision to  discontinue  the  development  of custom
non-networking chips. Our remaining  non-networking  product is still being sold
but no new development has been done since 1996. Our  non-networking  revenue is
generated by one custom  semiconductor device used to control the user interface
in a consumer health-monitoring device.


STRATEGY

Our  mission is to provide  superior  high-speed  internetworking  semiconductor
solutions to enable the restructuring of the global information  infrastructure.
We  facilitate  the upgrade on the  Internet  infrastructure  by  designing  and
selling   complex   chipset   solutions   based  on  our  knowledge  of  network
applications,  system  requirements  and  networking  protocols.  To achieve our
mission, we are pursuing the following key strategies:

Leverage technical expertise across diverse base of applications:

We have a history of analog,  digital,  microprocessor  and mixed signal  design
expertise and we integrate many  functions and protocols  into our products.  We
develop  chips that are used in a broad range of networking  equipment,  such as
multi-service  switches in the Access  portion of the  internet  infrastructure,
routers in the Metro portion and networked printers in Enterprise  networks.  We
leverage our common technologies and intellectual  property across a broad range
of networking equipment.

Many  OEMs  have   recognized   they  can  obtain  highly   complex,   broadband
communications  technology  "off the shelf" from  companies  such as  PMC-Sierra
rather  than  dedicating  their  own  resources  to  develop  custom  chips.  By
outsourcing  more  of the  silicon  content  in  their  networking  and  telecom
equipment,  OEMs can improve their  time-to-market  and reduce  development risk
while differentiating their products in other ways.

Provide first-class products, customer service and technical support:

We work very closely with our  customers to ensure they get the best service and
technical support required to assist them with their development efforts. As the
marketplace for telecommunications  equipment suppliers slowly consolidates,  we
believe  our  largest  customers  and their  products  will  take an  increasing
percentage of the overall  market in their areas of expertise.  This places even
more  importance  on our  customer  service  efforts.  Customers  such as Cisco,
Lucent, Nortel,  Alcatel,  Samsung and Hewlett-Packard are aligning their design
and  manufacturing  operations  with  key  suppliers.  In 2001,  Cisco  selected
PMC-Sierra as its "Semiconductor  Supplier of the Year" and Lucent  Technologies
named us a strategic alliance partner.

Take a leading role in industry standards bodies and interoperability
initiatives:

                                       8
<PAGE>

We continue to participate in many influential  industry  standards bodies so we
can assist in determining  performance criteria and  interoperability  standards
for the  industry.  This is critical to helping us make chips that our customers
will be able to deploy easily. In addition,  we work with the Saturn Development
Group (which we co-founded in 1992) to set new  interface  specifications.  As a
result of these efforts, our products enable interoperable solutions for a broad
range of  networking  applications.  To advance  this process  further,  we have
participated with other leading semiconductor  companies to demonstrate hardware
interoperability.  For example,  in 2001, we  collaborated  with Xilinx Inc. and
Altera Corp.  (industry  leading  suppliers of  programmable  logic  devices) to
successfully test the interoperability of our high-speed devices.

Maintain fabless business model:

We believe that  investing in the  research  and  development  of new devices is
strategically  more important  than trying to  differentiate  ourselves  through
manufacturing technologies. Consequently, we do not own or operate any foundries
and we design our  products  in  complementary  metal  oxide  silicon  (CMOS) at
feature  sizes  down to  0.13  micron.  We  outsource  approximately  90% of our
manufacturing  requirements  to Chartered  Semiconductor  Manufacturing,  Taiwan
Semiconductor  Manufacturing Corporation and IBM. By using independent foundries
to fabricate our wafers,  we are better able to concentrate our resources on the
design, development and testing of new products. In addition, we avoid having to
commit the capital required to own and operate a fabrication facility.


SEGMENT PERFORMANCE

We  evaluate  our  performance  based on gross  profits  of the  networking  and
non-networking  segments.  For  information  concerning  revenues  and profit by
segment, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

Our sales and  marketing  strategy  is to have our  products  designed  into our
customers'  equipment  by  developing  superior  products  for which we  provide
premium service and technical support.  We maintain close working  relationships
with many of our  customers.  Our marketing  team is focused on  developing  new
products that meet the needs of our customers in the rapidly  changing market of
the  telecommunications  industry.  We are often involved in the early stages of
design  concerning  our  customers'  plans  for new  equipment.  This  helps  us
determine if our existing products can be used in their new equipment or if more
complex devices need to be considered for the  application.  To assist us in our
planning  process,  we are in constant  contact  with our largest  customers  to
discuss industry trends,  emerging standards and their new product requirements.
Based on their input and our feedback,  we gain a better  understanding  of what
functions  and  features  they  want  integrated  into  our  chips  or chip  set
solutions.

                                       9
<PAGE>

To  promote  our  products,   our  marketing   team  is  actively   involved  in
demonstrating our devices with other industry suppliers and providing  technical
information  at trade shows held in North  America,  Asia and Europe.  Technical
support is  essential  to our  customers'  success,  and we provide this through
field application engineers,  technical marketing and factory systems engineers.
We also  provide  more  detailed  information  and support for our product  line
through our corporate website and special customer-accessible extranet sites. We
believe that providing  comprehensive product service and support is critical to
shortening  customers'  design cycles and maintaining a competitive  position in
the networking market.

We sell our products  both  directly and through  distributors  and  independent
manufacturers'  representatives.  In 2001,  approximately 40% of our orders were
shipped by our  distributors;  approximately 40% were sent by us directly to the
contract manufacturers as selected by the OEMs; and the balance of the shipments
were sent directly by us to our OEM customers.

Our largest distributor is Memec Group Holdings Ltd. who represents our products
worldwide  (excluding  Japan). We believe that on a going-forward  basis many of
our customers will be seeking to reduce supply chain costs and will,  therefore,
request  that we ship more of our products to the  contract  manufacturers  they
have selected.  Based on this trend,  we expect that our largest  customers will
have us ship a  higher  percentage  of their  orders  directly  to the  contract
manufacturers  and a lower  percentage will be shipped through our  distributors
over time.

Cisco Systems and Lucent Technologies each represented more than 10% of our 2001
revenues based on total sales to end customers (i.e. based on shipments  through
our distributors, to the sub-contractors as selected by our customers, or to the
OEMs  directly).  Our sales  outside of the United  States  accounted for 42% of
total revenue in 2001, 38% in 2000, and 30% in 1999.


MANUFACTURING

We are a fabless  company,  meaning we do not own or operate  foundries  for the
production of silicon wafers from which our products our made.  Instead,  we use
independent foundries and chip assemblers for the manufacture of our products.

Typically,  the  manufacture of our chips requires 12-16 weeks. We refer to this
as our lead-time.  Based on this lead-time, our team of production planners will
initiate a purchase order with an independent  foundry to fabricate the required
wafers.  The wafers once fabricated must be probed,  or inspected,  to determine
usable from  unusable chip parts,  referred to as die, on the wafer.  The wafers
are sent to an outside assembly house where they are cut and the good die are in
turn packaged into chips. The chips are then run through various  electrical and
visual tests before delivery to the customer. With most of our products, we have
the option to probe the wafers or test the final chips  in-house or  subcontract
the probing or testing out to independent subcontractors.

We receive more than 90% of the silicon wafers with which we derive our products
from  Chartered   Semiconductor   Manufacturing   Ltd.   ("Chartered"),   Taiwan
Semiconductor  Manufacturing  Corporation  ("TSMC"),  and IBM. These independent
foundries produce our networking  products at feature sizes down to 0.13 micron.
By using  independent  foundries to fabricate our wafers,  we are better able to
concentrate  our  resources  on the  designing,  development  and testing of new
products.  In addition,  we avoid much of the fixed capital cost associated with
owning and operating a fabrication facility.

                                       10
<PAGE>

We have supply agreements with both Chartered and TSMC. We have made deposits to
secure access to wafer fabrication  capacity under both of these agreements.  At
December 31, 2001 and 2000, we had $22 million and $23 million, respectively, in
deposits with these companies. Under these agreements, the foundries must supply
certain  quantities of wafers per year. Neither of these agreements have minimum
unit volume  requirements  but we are  obliged  under one of the  agreements  to
purchase a minimum  percentage of our total annual wafer  requirements  provided
that the foundry is able to continue to offer competitive  technology,  pricing,
quality and delivery.  The agreements may be terminated if either party does not
comply with the terms.

Wafers  supplied by outside  foundries  must meet our incoming  quality and test
standards.  We conduct a portion of our test operations on advanced mixed signal
and digital  test  equipment  in our Burnaby  and Santa  Clara  facilities.  The
remainder  of our testing is performed  predominantly  by  independent  U.S. and
Asian companies.


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our  current  research  and  development  efforts are  targeted  at  integrating
multiple  channels  or  functions  on single  chips,  broadening  the  number of
products we provide to address varying protocols and networking  functions,  and
increasing the speeds at which our chips operate.

We have design centers in the United States (California,  Oregon,  Maryland, and
Pennsylvania),  Canada  (British  Columbia,  Saskatchewan,  Ontario and Quebec),
Ireland, and India.

We spent $201.1  million in 2001,  $178.8  million in 2000, and $83.7 million in
1999 on research and development.

In 2000, we also expensed $38.2 million of in process  research and development,
$31.5 million of which related to the acquisition of Malleable  Technologies and
$6.7 million of which related to the acquisition of Datum Telegraphic.


BACKLOG

We sell primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders. Our customers frequently
revise the quantity  actually  purchased  and the shipment  schedules to reflect
changes in their needs.  We believe  orders placed for delivery in excess of six
months are not firm orders.  As of December  31,  2001,  our backlog of products
scheduled  for shipment  within six months  totaled  $35.7  million.  Unless our
customers  cancel or defer to a subsequent  year a portion of this  backlog,  we
expect this entire  backlog to be filled in 2002.  Our backlog of products as of
December 31, 2000 for shipment within six months totaled $216 million.

Our backlog includes backlog to our major  distributor,  which may not result in
revenue,  as we do not recognize  shipments to our major  distributor as revenue
until our distributor has sold our products  through to the end customer.  Also,
our customers may cancel, or defer to a future period, a significant  portion of
the backlog at their discretion  without penalty.  Accordingly,  we believe that
our backlog at any given time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenues.

                                       11
<PAGE>


COMPETITION

We typically face competition at the design stage when our networking  customers
determine  which  communications  semiconductor  components to use in their next
generation equipment designs.

Most of our  customers  choose a particular  semiconductor  component  primarily
based on whether the component:

o        meets the functional requirements,

o        addresses the communications protocols,

o        interfaces easily with other components in a design,

o        meets power usage requirements, and

o        is priced competitively.

OEMs are  becoming  more  price  conscious  than in the past as a result  of the
downturn in the telecommunications  industry, and as semiconductors sourced from
third party suppliers  comprise a greater portion of the total materials cost in
OEM equipment.  We have also experienced more aggressive price  competition from
competitors  that are  seeking  to enter into the  market  segments  in which we
participate.  These circumstances may make some of our products less competitive
and we may be forced to decrease our prices significantly to win a design.

In addition to price,  OEMs will also  consider the quality of the supplier when
determining  which component to include in a design.  Many of our customers will
consider  the  breadth  and  depth of the  supplier's  technology,  as using one
supplier for a broad range of technologies can often simplify and accelerate the
design of next generation equipment. OEMs will also consider a supplier's design
execution  reputation,  as many OEMs  design  their  next  generation  equipment
concurrently  with the  component  design.  As well,  consideration  is given to
whether the OEM has qualified the supplier, as this ensures that components made
by that supplier will meet the OEM's strict quality standards.

Our  competitors  may be classified  into three major groups.  First, we compete
against  established  peer-group  semiconductor  companies  that  focus  on  the
communications  semiconductor  business.  These companies include Agere Systems,
Applied  Micro  Circuits  Corporation,   Broadcom,  Exar  Corporation,  Conexant
Systems, Marvell Technology Group, Multilink Technology Corporation,  Transwitch
and Vitesse Semiconductor.  These companies are well financed,  have significant
communications semiconductor technology assets, have established sales channels,
and depend on the market in which we participate for the bulk of their revenues.

                                       12
<PAGE>

Other  competitors  include  major  domestic  and  international   semiconductor
companies,  such as Cypress  Semiconductor,  Intel,  IBM,  Infineon,  Integrated
Device Technology,  Maxim Integrated Products,  Motorola,  Nortel Networks,  and
Texas  Instruments.  These companies are  concentrating an increasing  amount of
their  substantial  financial  and other  resources  on the  markets in which we
participate.

Emerging companies also provide  competition in our segment of the semiconductor
market. We are aware of venture-backed companies that focus on specific portions
of our broad range of products.  These companies  could  introduce  technologies
that may make one or more of our integrated circuits obsolete.

Over the next few years,  we expect  additional  competitors,  some of which may
also have greater  financial and other  resources,  to enter the market with new
products.

We are also expanding into some markets, such as the wireless infrastructure and
generic  microprocessor  markets  that  have  established  incumbents  that have
substantial  financial and other resources.  Some of these  incumbents  derive a
majority of their  earnings from these markets.  We expect a strong  increase in
competition in these markets.


LICENSES, PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We rely in part on patents to protect our  intellectual  property  and have been
awarded 112 U.S.  patents for circuit designs and other  innovations used in the
design  and  architecture  of our  products.  In  addition,  we have  94  patent
applications  pending in the U.S.  Patent  and  Trademark  office,  and 3 patent
applications  pending in other countries.  Our patents expire typically 20 years
from the patent application date if accepted, with our existing patents expiring
between 2010 and 2020.

Our  products,  once  designed  are  outlined in mask works that  represent  the
predetermined    three-dimensional   pattern   of   metallic,   insulating,   or
semiconducting  material  present or removed from the layers of a  semiconductor
chip used to produce our product.  To protect our intellectual  property we rely
on a combination of mask work protection  under the Federal  Semiconductor  Chip
Protection Act of 1984, trademarks,  copyrights, trade secret laws, employee and
third-party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements.

We do not consider our business to be materially  dependent upon any one patent,
although  we believe  that a strong  portfolio  of patents  combined  with other
factors  such  as  our  innovative  ability,  technological  expertise  and  the
experience  of  our  personnel  are  important  to  compete  effectively  in the
industry.  A portfolio of patents also provides the  flexibility to negotiate or
cross  license  intellectual  property  with other  semiconductor  companies  to
incorporate other features in our products.

Our only material license is the MIPS microprocessor  architecture  license from
MIPS Technologies  Inc., on which our  microprocessor-based  products are based.
While the desktop  microprocessor market is dominated by the Intel Corporation's
"x86"  complex  instruction  set  computing,  or  CISC,  architecture,   several
microprocessor  architectures  have  emerged for other  microprocessor  markets.
Because of their higher performance and smaller space requirements,  most of the
competing  architectures,  like the MIPSA architecture,  are reduced instruction
set computing, or RISC architectures.  The MIPS architecture is widely supported
through   semiconductor   design  software,   operating  systems  and  companion
integrated  circuits.  Because  this  license  is the  architecture  behind  our
microprocessors,  we must be able to retain the MIPS license in order to produce
our follow-on microprocessor products.

                                       13
<PAGE>

PMC and its logo are our registered  trademarks and service marks.  We own other
trademarks  and service  marks not  appearing in this Annual  Report.  Any other
trademarks used in this Annual Report are owned by other entities.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2001,  we had 1,141  employees,  including  711 in Research &
Development, 125 in Production and Quality Assurance, 199 in Marketing and Sales
and 106 in  Administration.  Our employees are not  represented  by a collective
bargaining  agreement.  We have never experienced any work stoppage.  We believe
our employee relations are good.
