Item 1.  Business

Overview

     We design, develop, manufacture and market proprietary, high-voltage,
analog integrated circuits, commonly referred to as ICs, for use primarily in
alternating current to direct current, or AC to DC, power conversion. We have
targeted high-volume power supply markets including:

     o    the communications market;

     o    the consumer market;

     o    the computer market; and

     o    the industrial electronics markets.

     Our initial focus is on those applications that are sensitive to size,
portability, energy efficiency and time-to-market. We believe our patented
TOPSwitch ICs, introduced in 1994, are the first highly integrated power
conversion ICs to achieve widespread market acceptance. We introduced an
enhanced family of ICs, TOPSwitch-II, in April 1997. In September 1998, we
announced the TinySwitch family of integrated circuits for power supplies used
in a broad range of electronic products. TinySwitch ICs, which are designed to
reduce energy leakage by incorporating our new EcoSmart technology, enable a new
class of light, compact, energy-efficient power supplies. In March 2000, we
introduced the TOPSwitch-FX family of products, which also incorporates our
EcoSmart technology to help engineers meet the growing need for environmentally
friendly power solutions. In November 2000, we introduced the TOPSwitch-GX
family of products. The GX family is capable of supplying output levels from 6
watts to 290 watts. We believe that the FX and GX families of ICs give power
supply design engineers the ability to cost-effectively integrate additional
functionality into the power supplies they design. In March 2001, we introduced
the TinySwitch-II family of products with power levels ranging from 4 watts to
23 watts. All of our products introduced since 1998 incorporate our EcoSmart
technology.

Industry Background

     Virtually every electronic device that plugs into a wall socket requires
some type of power supply to convert high-voltage AC, provided by electric
utilities, into low-voltage DC required by the devices. Additionally,
rechargeable, portable products, such as cellular phones and laptop computers,
also need an AC to DC power supply to recharge their batteries.

     Before 1970, AC to DC power supplies used large, inefficient transformers,
which operated at low frequencies to convert power from AC to DC. In the 1970s,
the invention of high-voltage discrete semiconductors enabled the development of
a new generation of AC to DC "switching" power supplies, which allowed the use
of smaller, more efficient transformers to lower the voltage. Although these
discrete switchers offered advantages over older technologies, over the years
they have not kept pace with the technological advances made in the electronic
devices they power.

     As the pressures from market forces have increased, the limitations of
discrete switchers have become more pronounced. Discrete switchers require
numerous components which limit the power supply designers' ability to reduce
the size, increase the functionality and improve the efficiency of switchers
while at the same time meeting stringent market cost and energy efficiency
requirements. In addition, discrete switchers involve a high level of design
complexity, which limits the scalability of designs and increases time-to-market
and development risks for new products.


                                       3

<PAGE>

     Early attempts to replace discrete switchers with integrated switchers,
using high-voltage analog ICs, did not achieve widespread acceptance in the
marketplace because they were not cost-effective. We addressed this opportunity
in 1994 by introducing our first cost effective IC, TOPSwitch. Our growth since
that time validates our belief that a substantial market opportunity exists for
high-voltage ICs that are cost effective and combine the benefits of integration
that discrete switcher and earlier transformer technologies lack.

Our Highly Integrated Solution

     We have developed several families of high-voltage power conversion ICs,
which we believe are the first highly integrated power conversion ICs to achieve
widespread market acceptance. Since introducing our TOPSwitch family of products
in 1994, based on this and subsequent innovations, we have shipped into the
market we pioneered approximately 680 million ICs. These patented ICs achieve a
high level of system integration by combining a number of electronic components
into a single IC. Our TOPSwitch and TinySwitch products enable many power
supplies in the 0.5 to 290-watt power range to have a total cost equal to or
lower than discrete switchers. Our TOPSwitch and TinySwitch products offer the
following key benefits to power supplies:

     o    Fewer Components, Reduced Size and Enhanced Functionality

          Our highly integrated TOPSwitch ICs enable the design and production
          of cost-effective switchers that use up to 50% fewer components and
          have enhanced functionality compared to discrete-based solutions. For
          example, our ICs provide thermal and short circuit protection without
          increasing system cost, while discrete switchers must add additional
          components and cost to provide these functions.

     o    Improved Efficiency

          Our integrated circuit also improves electrical efficiency, which
          reduces power consumption and excess heat generation. Our patented
          low-loss, high-voltage device, combined with its control circuitry,
          improves overall electrical efficiency during both full operation and
          stand-by mode.

     o    Reduced Time-to-Market

          Our integrated circuit makes power supply design simpler and once
          customers have created designs using our ICs, they can apply that
          design to new products, resulting in a shorter time-to-market and
          reduced product development risk.

     o    Wide Power Range and Scalability

          Products in our current TOPSwitch and TinySwitch families can address
          a power range of 0.5 to 290 watts. Within each family of products, the
          switcher designer can scale up or down in power to address a wide
          range of designs with minimal design effort.

Strategy

     Our objective is to be the leading provider of high-voltage power
conversion ICs. We intend to pursue the following strategies to accelerate
adoption of our products:

     o    Target High-Volume Markets

          Because of our products' scalability and ability to address a wide
          power range, a small number of products address a wide variety of
          customer needs, allowing us to take advantage of economies of scale
          and making us more competitive.


                                       4

<PAGE>

     o    Focus on Markets that Can Derive Significant Benefits from Integration

          We are initially focusing our efforts on those markets that are
          particularly sensitive to size, portability, energy efficiency and
          time to market issues. We achieved early success in the cellular phone
          fast charger market, as cellular phone customers demanded more
          portable travel chargers instead of stand-alone desktop chargers. We
          have also achieved success in the desktop PC market due to the
          market's demand for stand-by power capability, and in the cable and
          direct broadcast satellite decoder box market due to that market's
          need for reducing component count and for shortening product design
          cycles. As other significant market opportunities emerge for our
          TOPSwitch products, we intend to focus our resources on the
          development and penetration of those markets.

     o    Deliver Systems Solutions and Provide Applications Expertise

          To help potential customers decide to purchase our TOPSwitch products,
          we offer comprehensive application design support. We provide
          extensive application notes, software design tools and reference
          design boards. We also provide application-engineering support out of
          our headquarters and through field application engineering labs
          located in China, England, Germany, India, Japan, Korea and Taiwan. We
          have committed substantial resources to system support by dedicating
          approximately 35 percent of our technical workforce to applications
          engineering. We believe our power supply systems expertise and
          investment in field applications engineering provide us significant
          competitive advantages.

     o    Extend Technological Leadership in High-Voltage Analog ICs

          Our proprietary device structures and fabrication processes as well as
          circuit and system designs have resulted in 39 U.S. patents and 51
          foreign patents. These patents, in combination with our other
          intellectual property, form the basis of our TOPSwitch and TinySwitch
          product families. We recently introduced an enhanced TOPSwitch product
          family that provides improved power capability and system cost
          advantages while preserving the design simplicity of our original
          TOPSwitch products. We continue to improve our device structures,
          wafer fabrication processes and circuit and system designs and seek to
          obtain additional patents to protect our intellectual property.

     o    Leverage Patented Technology in Strategic Relationships

          We have established relationships with Matsushita Electronics
          Corporation, and with OKI Electric Industry in order to take advantage
          of these companies' high volume manufacturing resources, and in the
          case of Matsushita, to also generate royalty revenues. Our wafer
          manufacturing relationships with Matsushita and OKI enable us to focus
          on fundamental high-voltage silicon technology, product design and
          marketing while minimizing fixed costs and capital expenditures.
          Matsushita also has licensed the right to manufacture our products for
          sale in certain geographic regions and for use in its own products.

Products

     Below is a brief description of our products:

     o    TOPSwitch and TinySwitch Product Families

          Our TOPSwitch and TinySwitch high-voltage analog IC products are able
          to meet the power conversion needs of a wide range of applications
          within high volume markets. Sales of TOPSwitch and TinySwitch products
          accounted for 98%, 98% and 97% of our net revenues in 2001, 2000 and
          1999, respectively.


                                       5

<PAGE>

          *    TOPSwitch

               The TOPSwitch family was introduced in 1994 and consists of 13
               products. The key benefits that the TOPSwitch family brings to
               power supplies, compared to discrete switchers, include fewer
               components, reduced size, enhanced functionality and lower cost
               in many applications. Our TOPSwitch products integrate a PWM
               controller, a high-voltage MOSFET and a number of other
               electronic components into a single 3 terminal IC.

          *    TOPSwitch II

               The TOPSwitch II family was introduced in April 1997 and consists
               of 11 products. The TOPSwitch II products further lower the
               switcher costs by improving the performance of TOPSwitch and
               addressing low power applications with lower cost packaging. The
               TOPSwitch II family uses the same proprietary architecture as the
               original TOPSwitch family, enabling switcher designers
               experienced with TOPSwitch to take advantage of the TOPSwitch II
               benefits without implementing a new architecture.

          *    TinySwitch

               The TinySwitch family was introduced in September 1998 and
               consists of 5 products. The product line topology was
               specifically designed to address low power applications below 10
               watts. The TinySwitch family of high voltage ICs was the first
               family of chips to incorporate EcoSmart technology to address the
               growing global demand to reduce energy waste in a wide range of
               electronic products. It dramatically reduces the energy consumed
               during standby and no-load, enabling our customers to meet
               governmental energy efficiency guidelines.

          *    TOPSwitch-FX

               The TOPSwitch-FX family was introduced in March 2000 and consists
               of 6 products. This family offers engineers greater design
               flexibility to develop highly integrated power supplies. New
               features integrated into the TOPSwitch-FX parts continue to
               reduce the system cost of power supplies as well as improve their
               performance. In addition, this product line incorporates our
               energy saving EcoSmart technology to help meet the growing need
               for environmentally friendly power solutions. The family delivers
               up to 75 watts of power for use in markets such as cellular phone
               chargers, personal computers, set-top boxes and DVD players.

          *    TOPSwitch-GX

               The TOPSwitch-GX family was introduced in November 2000 and
               consists of 21 products. It is capable of supplying output power
               levels up to 290 watts. TOPSwitch-GX is the first monolithic high
               voltage switching power IC capable of providing this level of
               power. Our recently introduced novel, high-voltage technology
               further improves silicon efficiency of this family of devices by
               using dual-conduction layers. This structure provides a
               transistor conduction capability that results in a significantly
               more cost-effective high voltage device than that of competing
               technologies. The new family incorporates the features offered in
               earlier TOPSwitch product families as well as new ones through
               additional user configurable pins. This allows a higher level of
               end user design flexibility, resulting in improved power supply
               design optimization and lower system cost. Advanced EcoSmart
               technology offers improved standby energy efficiency.
               Applications for TOPSwitch-GX devices include set-top boxes, DVD
               players, desktop computers, LCD monitors, internet appliances and
               printers.

          *    TinySwitch- II


                                       6

<PAGE>

               The TinySwitch-II family was introduced in March 2001 and
               consists of 4 products. This product line maintains the
               simplicity of the previous TinySwitch line while providing
               additional features and lowering system cost. This family of
               products is also implemented on the new dual conduction high
               voltage silicon technology and addresses power levels up to 23
               watts. TinySwitch-II devices enable manufacturers to easily and
               cost effectively meet energy guidelines for standby power as
               outlined in Europe's EC Code of Conduct and the one watt standby
               executive order and Energy Star in the U.S. Applications for
               these devices include low power adaptors for portable equipment
               such as cell phones, PDAs, digital cameras, external computer
               peripherals, power tools, standby power supplies found in PCs and
               audio/video equipment and power supplies for home appliances.

     o    Other Products

          Our products also include our SMP family, INT family and a limited
          number of custom products. Sales of these products accounted for 2%,
          2% and 3% of our net revenues in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.
          These products are scheduled for end-of-life at the end of 2002.


                                       7

<PAGE>

Markets and Customers

     Our strategy is to target high-volume power supply applications and to
initially focus on markets that can benefit the most from our highly integrated
power conversion ICs. The following chart shows representative customers and end
users and the primary applications of our products in power supplies in several
major market categories.

<TABLE>
<S>                                   <C>                                         <C>
Market Category                       Primary Applications                        Customers
------------------------------------  ------------------------------------------  ---------------------------------
     o    Communications              cellular phones, wireless PDAs, cable       AcBel, Anam, Leader, Mitsubishi,
                                      modem, XDSL modems, network                 Motorola, Nokia, Phihong, Quante,
                                      hubs, Telcom AC-DC, Telcom DC-DC            Salom, Samsung

     o    Consumer                    cable and DBS set top box, digital          Braun, Daewoo, General Electric,
                                      camera, DVD, TV standby, home               LG, Maytag, Miele, Mitsubishi,
                                      comfort, major appliances, personal         Pace, Philips, Samsung, Shinco,
                                      care and small appliances                   Sony, Whirlpool

     o    Computer                    desktop standby, desktop main,              AcBel, Artesyn, Astec, Compaq,
                                      notebook adapter, monitors,                 Dell, Delta, Hipro, IBM, Liteon,
                                      multimedia audio, printer, removable        Magnetek, Samsung
                                      media, LCD projector

     o    Industrial Electronics      industrial control, utility meters, motor   Actaris, American Power
                                      control, uninterruptible power supply       Conversion, Black & Decker, EBM
                                      (UPS)                                       Werke GmbH, Formosa
                                                                                  Electronics, Samsung,
                                                                                  Schlumberger, Siemens
</TABLE>

     Revenue by our end market categories for 2001 was approximately 36 percent
communications, 31 percent consumer, 19 percent computer, 7 percent industrial
electronics and 7 percent other markets.

Sales, Distribution and Marketing

     We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and
merchant power supply manufacturers through a direct sales staff and through a
worldwide network of independent sales representatives and distributors. Our
international sales representatives also act as distributors in Europe and Asia.
In the United States, we use two national distributors and a number of regional
sales representatives. We have sales offices in California, Georgia and
Illinois, as well as in China, England, Germany, India, Japan, Korea, Singapore
and Taiwan. Direct sales to OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers
represented approximately 49%, 50% and 60% of our net product revenues for 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively, while sales through distributors accounted for
approximately 51%, 50% and 40% for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. All
distributors are entitled to certain return privileges based on sales revenue
and are protected from price reductions affecting their inventories. Our
distributors are not subject to minimum purchase requirements and the sales
representatives and distributors can discontinue marketing any of our products
at any time.

     Our products are generally incorporated into a customer's power supply at
the design stage. Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on facilitating
the customer's use of our products in the design of new power supplies for
specific applications. An important competitive factor in determining whether a
customer decides to use our products in its designs is our commitment to provide
comprehensive application design support. We publish comprehensive data books
and design guides, and provide to our current and prospective customers
extensive application notes and reference design boards. We also have available
our "P I Expert" software, which is a PC-based design program that aids users in
designing power supplies. In addition, we provide application-


                                       8

<PAGE>

engineering support out of our headquarters, and our field application
engineering labs provide local resources to support customers in key
geographies. We focus particular efforts on building relationships with, and
providing support to, industry-leading OEMs and merchant power supply
manufacturers. We have committed substantial resources to system support by
dedicating approximately 35 percent of our technical workforce to applications
engineering.

     Our customer base is highly concentrated, and a relatively small number of
distributors, OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for a
significant portion of our revenue in 2001 and 2000. We estimate that our top
ten customers, including distributors which resell to large OEMs and merchant
power supply manufacturers, accounted for 74%, 69% and 68% of our net revenues
for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. For 2001, Memec Electronic Components and
Synnex Technologies, both distributors, accounted for 22% and 13% of our net
revenues, respectively. Also in 2001, Phihong Enterprise Co., a merchant power
supply manufacturer, accounted for 11% of our net revenues. For 2000, Memec and
Synnex accounted for 22% and 10% of our net revenues, respectively. For 1999,
these two distributors accounted for 16% and 11% of our net revenues,
respectively. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of net revenues
during 2001, 2000 and 1999. In 2001, 2000 and 1999, international sales
comprised 93%, 84% and 78%, respectively, of our net revenues.

     Sales of our products are generally made pursuant to standard purchase
orders, which are frequently revised to reflect changes in the customer's
requirements. Product deliveries are scheduled upon our receipt of purchase
orders. Generally, these orders allow customers to reschedule delivery dates and
cancel purchase orders without significant penalties. For these reasons, we
believe that purchase orders received, while useful for scheduling production,
are not necessarily reliable indicators of future revenues.

Technology

     o    High-Voltage Transistor Structure and Process Technology

          We have developed a patented high-voltage, power IC technology, which
          uses our proprietary high voltage MOS transistor structure and
          fabrication process and has resulted in 12 U.S. patents. The
          technology enables us to integrate cost effectively on the same
          monolithic IC, high-voltage n-channel transistors with industry
          standard CMOS and bipolar components. The IC device structure and the
          wafer fabrication process both contribute to the cost effectiveness of
          our high-voltage technology. Recently introduced novel, high-voltage
          technology further improves silicon efficiency of the devices by using
          dual-conduction layers. The device structure provides a transistor
          conduction capability that results in a significantly more
          cost-effective high voltage device than that of competing
          technologies. Our high voltage ICs have been implemented on low cost
          silicon wafers using standard 5V CMOS silicon processing techniques
          with a relatively large feature size of 3-microns combined with our
          proprietary implant process step.

     o    IC Design and System Technology

          Our proprietary IC designs combine complex control circuits and
          high-voltage transistors on the same monolithic IC. Our IC design
          technology takes advantage of our high-voltage process to minimize the
          die size of both the high-voltage device and control circuits and
          improve the performance of our ICs versus alternative integrated
          technologies. We also have developed system expertise in switching
          converters that have resulted in new innovative topologies that reduce
          system cost, increase system performance and greatly improve energy
          efficiency of power supplies compared to alternative approaches. Our
          innovations in IC circuit designs system level architectures have
          resulted in 27 U.S. patents, and have enabled us to develop
          revolutionary products such as the highly integrated TOPSwitch,
          TOPSwitch-GX and TinySwitch family of ICs and scalable architecture
          for integrated switchers.

Research and Development

     Our research and development efforts are focused on improving our
high-voltage device structures, wafer fabrication processes, analog circuit
designs and system level architecture. By these efforts, we seek to further


                                       9

<PAGE>

reduce the costs of our products, and improve the cost effectiveness and enhance
the functionality of our customers' power supplies. We have assembled a
multidisciplined team of highly skilled engineers to meet our research and
development goals. These engineers bring expertise in high-voltage structure and
process technology, analog design and power supply systems architecture.

     In 2001, 2000 and 1999, we spent $14.5 million, $12.5 million and $10.8
million, respectively, on research and development efforts. We expect to
continue to invest substantial funds in research and development activities. The
development of high-voltage analog ICs is highly complex. We cannot guarantee
that we will develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective
manner or that our development efforts will successfully permit our products to
meet changing market demands.

Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights

     We use a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and
confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. We hold
39 U.S. patents and have generally filed for or received foreign patent
protection on these patents resulting in 51 foreign patents to date. The U.S.
patents have expiration dates ranging from 2006 to 2020. We are currently
pursuing additional U.S. patent applications relating to new products and
improvements, and extensions of our current products. We cannot guarantee that
our pending United States or foreign patent applications or any future United
States or foreign patent applications will be approved, that any issued patents
will protect our intellectual property or will not be challenged by third
parties, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our
ability to do business. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that others will not
independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any of
our patents. We also hold 18 trademarks, six in the U.S., two in California, two
in Taiwan, one in Korea, two in Hong Kong, one in China, one in Europe and three
in Japan.

     We regard as proprietary certain equipment, processes, information and
knowledge that we have developed and used in the design and manufacture of our
products. Our trade secrets include a proprietary high volume production process
that produces our patented high-voltage ICs. We attempt to protect our trade
secrets and other proprietary information through non-disclosure agreements,
proprietary information agreements with employees and consultants and other
security measures. Despite these efforts, we cannot guarantee that others will
not gain access to our trade secrets, or that we can meaningfully protect our
intellectual property. In addition, effective trade secret protection may be
unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Although we intend to
protect our rights vigorously, we cannot assure that such measures will be
completely successful.

     We have granted a perpetual non-transferable license to Matsushita to use
our semiconductor patents and other intellectual property for our current
high-voltage technology, including our TOPSwitch technology and improvements on
the existing technology, which allows Matsushita to manufacture and design
products for internal use and for sale or other distribution to Japanese
companies and to subsidiaries of Japanese companies in Asia. To the extent the
products they manufacture and design are not based on the TOPSwitch technology,
Matsushita may make sales or other distribution to Asian companies in Asia.
Matsushita has granted us perpetual cross licenses to the technology developed
by them under their license rights. We have agreed not to license the technology
licensed to Matsushita to other Japanese companies or their subsidiaries prior
to July 2005. In exchange for its license rights, Matsushita has paid and will
continue to pay to us licensing fees for a fixed period and has paid or will pay
royalties on products using the licensed technology during fixed periods.

     We have also granted a perpetual, non-transferable license to AT&T
Microelectronics to use certain of our IC processes and device technologies in
the products AT&T sells. In addition, pursuant to an agreement with MagneTek,
Inc., we have granted MagneTek an exclusive, non-transferable, perpetual
royalty-free license to manufacture lighting products that incorporate certain
of our technology.

Manufacturing

     We contract with Matsushita and OKI to manufacture our wafers in foundries
located in Japan. Our semiconductor products are assembled and packaged by
independent subcontractors in China, Malaysia and the Philippines. We perform
testing, finishing and shipping at our facility in San Jose, California. This
fabless manufacturing model enables us to focus on our engineering and design
strengths, minimize fixed costs on capital


                                       10

<PAGE>

expenditures, and still have access to high-volume manufacturing capacity. Our
products do not require leading edge process geometries for them to be
cost-effective, and thus we can use Matsushita and OKI's older, low-cost
facilities for wafer manufacturing. We use a proprietary and sensitive implant
process and must interact closely with Matsushita and OKI to achieve
satisfactory yields. Although we generally utilize standard IC packages for
assembly, some materials and aspects of assembly are specific to our products.
We require our manufacturers to use a high-voltage molding compound that is
difficult to process and is available from only one supplier. This compound and
its required processes, together with the other non-standard materials and
processes needed to assemble our products, require a more exacting level of
process control than normally required for standard packages. As a result we
must be involved with our contractors on an active engineering basis to maintain
and improve the process. We have developed process monitoring equipment to
support this effort and must provide adequate engineering resources to provide
similar support in the future.

     Our wafer supply agreements with Matsushita and OKI expire in June 2005 and
September 2003, respectively. Under the terms of our agreement with Matsushita,
we establish minimum annual and monthly purchase and sale commitments annually
with the mutual agreement of Matsushita. We also establish pricing by good faith
agreement, subject to our right to most favored pricing. Under the terms of the
OKI agreement, OKI has agreed to reserve a specified amount of production
capacity and to sell wafers to us at fixed prices, which are subject to periodic
review jointly by OKI and us. Our agreements with both Matsushita and OKI
provide for the purchase of wafers in Japanese yen. Both agreements allow for
mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese
yen and the U.S. dollar.

     We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach an agreement with either
Matsushita or OKI to extend the term of their respective wafer supply
agreements. Failure to reach, in a timely fashion, an extension of either
agreement or to enter into a wafer supply arrangement with another manufacturer
could result in material disruptions in supply. Contractual provisions limit the
conditions under which we can enter into such arrangements with other Japanese
manufacturers or their subsidiaries during the term of the agreement with
Matsushita. In the event of a supply disruption with OKI or Matsushita, if we
were unable to quickly qualify alternative manufacturing sources for existing or
new products or if these sources were unable to produce wafers with acceptable
manufacturing yields, our operating results would suffer.

     We typically receive shipments from Matsushita or OKI approximately 5 to 9
weeks after placing orders, and lead times for new products can be substantially
longer. To provide sufficient time for assembly, testing and finishing, we
typically need to receive wafers from Matsushita and OKI 4 to 6 weeks before the
desired ship date to our customers. As a result of these factors and the fact
that customers' orders can be made with little advance notice, we have only a
limited ability to react to fluctuations in demand for our products. This could
cause us to have excess or a shortage of inventory of a particular product. From
time to time in the past we have been unable to fully satisfy customer requests
as a result of these factors. Any significant disruptions in deliveries would
materially adversely affect our business and operating results. We carry a
substantial amount of inventory of tested wafers to help offset these factors to
better serve our markets and meet customer demand.

Competition

     The high-voltage power supply industry is intensely competitive and
characterized by extreme price sensitivity. Accordingly, the most significant
competitive factor in the target markets for our products is cost effectiveness.
Our products face competition from alternative technologies, including
traditional linear transformers and discrete switcher power supplies. We believe
that at current pricing, our families of high-voltage power conversion ICs offer
favorable cost-performance benefits compared to linear and discrete switcher
supplies in many high-volume applications. However, there has been sizeable
overcapacity of discrete components, which resulted in significant price erosion
for these products during 2000 and 2001. A continuation of the price decline of
discrete components, such as high-voltage Bipolar and MOSFET transistors and PWM
controller ICs, could adversely affect the cost effectiveness of the TOPSwitch
products. Also, older alternative technologies like linear transformers are more
cost-effective than discrete switchers and integrated switchers that use our ICs
in certain low power ranges for certain applications. If power requirements for
certain applications in which our products are currently utilized, such as
battery chargers for cellular telephones, drop below certain power levels, these
older alternative technologies can be used more cost effectively than switchers.
Our TinySwitch IC family, introduced in September 1998, was specifically
designed to enhance the cost effectiveness of our integrated


                                       11

<PAGE>

switcher solutions in the low power range. However, we cannot guarantee that our
efforts in this area will continue to be successful.

     Recently, our TOPSwitch product families have begun to meet increased
competition from hybrid and single high-voltage ICs similar to TOPSwitch. These
competing products are being developed or have been developed and are being
produced by companies such as ON Semiconductor, STMicroelectronics, Fairchild
Semiconductor Infineon, Philips and Sanken Electric Company. We expect
competition to increase as companies like these see the success we have had in
converting older technologies to the integrated solutions enabled by our product
offerings. To the extent these competitors' products are more cost effective
than our products, our business, financial condition and operating results could
be materially adversely affected. Many of our emerging competitors, including
STMicroelectronics, Fairchild, Infineon, Philips and Sanken, have significantly
greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than do we.
In the context of a market where a high-voltage IC is designed into a customer's
product and the provider of such ICs is therefore the sole source of the IC for
that product, greater manufacturing resources may be a significant factor in the
customer's choice of the IC because of the customer's perception of greater
certainty in its source of supply.

     Our ability to compete in our target markets also depends on such factors
as:

     o    timing and success of new product introductions by us and our
          competitors;

     o    the pace at which our customers incorporate our products into their
          end user products;

     o    availability of wafer fabrication and finished good manufacturing
          capability;

     o    availability of adequate sources of raw materials;

     o    protection of our products by effective utilization of intellectual
          property laws; and

     o    general economic conditions.

     We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete favorably
or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new
products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies
entering this market. Our failure to compete successfully in the high-voltage
power supply business would materially adversely affect our business, financial
condition and operating results.

Employees

     As of December 31, 2001, we employed 264 full time personnel, consisting of
108 in manufacturing, 62 in research and development, 36 in applications
support, 35 in sales and marketing and 23 in finance and administration.

                                       12

<PAGE>

Executive Officers of Power Integrations

     As of February 28, 2002, our executive officers, which are elected by and
serve at the discretion of the board of directors, were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name                          Position With Power Integrations                                 Age
----------------------------  ---------------------------------------------------------------  ---
<S>                           <C>                                                               <C>
Balu Balakrishnan             President and Chief Executive Officer                             47
Derek Bell                    Vice President, Engineering                                       58
John M. Cobb                  Vice President, Finance and Administration, Chief Financial       45
                              Officer
Richard S. Fassler            Vice President, Marketing                                         50
Bruce Renouard                Vice President, Worldwide Sales                                   41
Daniel M. Selleck             Vice President, Strategic Business Development                    55
John Tomlin                   Vice President, Operations                                        54
Clifford J. Walker            Vice President, Corporate Development                             50
Howard F. Earhart             Chairman of the Board                                             62
Alan D. Bickell(1)(2)         Director                                                          65
Nicholas E. Brathwaite(2)     Director                                                          43
R. Scott Brown(1)             Director                                                          60
E. Floyd Kvamme(1)(2)         Director                                                          64
Steven J. Sharp               Director                                                          60
</TABLE>
-----------
(1) Member of the compensation committee

(2) Member of the audit committee

     Balu Balakrishnan became the president and chief executive officer in
January 2002. He served as our president and chief operating officer from April
2001 to January 2002. From January 2000 to April 2001, he was the vice president
of engineering and strategic marketing. From September 1997 to January 2000 he
was the vice president of engineering and new business development. From
September 1994 to September 1997 Mr. Balakrishnan served as our vice president
of engineering and marketing. He served as our vice president of design
engineering from April 1989 to September 1994.

     Derek Bell has served as vice president of engineering since joining us in
April of 2001. Previously Mr. Bell was vice president of engineering for the
professional services group at Synopsys during 1999 and 2000, vice president of
strategic alliances at Cirrus Logic from 1996 to 1999, vice president and
general manager of the application specific product group at National
Semiconductor from 1995 to 1996 and served as president and chief executive
officer of NovaSensor, a manufacturer of silicon sensors from 1990 to 1994. He
also held various senior management positions at Signetics from 1972 to 1990,
most recently as group vice president.

     John M. Cobb has served as our vice president, finance and administration
and chief financial officer since April 2001. From April 1990 to October 2000,
Mr. Cobb held various senior level financial positions at Quantum Corporation, a
computer storage company, most recently as vice president, finance and chief
financial officer of the Hard Disk Drive Group.

     Richard S. Fassler has served as our vice president, marketing since
January 2000. From 1986 to 2000, Mr. Fassler held various positions, most
recently as the vice president of sales and marketing at IXYS Corporation, a
designer and developer of power semiconductors.

     Bruce Renouard has served as our vice president, worldwide sales since
February 2002. Mr. Renouard joined our company in January 2002 as a member of
the sales organization. From August 1999 to August 2001,

                                       13

<PAGE>

he served as vice president, worldwide sales of Zoran Corporation, a provider of
digital solutions in the multimedia and consumer electronics markets. Mr.
Renouard held the position of director, worldwide market development from June
1997 to August 1999 for IDT/Centaur, an X 86 processor and start-up. From
January 1995 to June 1997, he served as national distribution sales manager for
Cyrix Corp, a company specializing in Intel compatible processors.

     Daniel M. Selleck has served as our vice president, strategic business
development since February 2002. He was our vice president, worldwide sales from
May 1993 to February 2002. From February 1984 to May 1993, Mr. Selleck held
various sales management positions with Philips Semiconductor including european
regional sales manager and western area sales manager in the United States.

     John Tomlin has served as our vice president, operations since October
2001. From 1981 to 2001, Mr. Tomlin served in a variety of senior management
positions in operations, service, logistics and marketing, most recently as vice
president of worldwide operations at Quantum Corporation, a computer storage
company.

     Clifford J. Walker has served as our vice president, corporate development
since June 1995. From September 1994 to June 1995, Mr. Walker served as vice
president of Reach Software, a software company. From December 1993 to September
1994, Mr. Walker served as president of Morgan Walker, a consulting company.

     Howard F. Earhart served as our president, chief executive officer and as a
director from January 1995 until January 2002, and continues as chairman of the
board of directors. Mr. Earhart brings more than 30 years of executive
management experience to Power Integrations. His management experience includes
photographic film products at Eastman Kodak and consumer products at Memorex
Corporation where he was president of the consumer products group. Mr. Earhart
also served as the chief executive officer of Lin Data Corporation and
Information Magnetics Corporation; both companies manufacture
semiconductor-based components for the disk drive industry. Mr. Earhart
currently serves on the boards of two private companies. He holds a B.S. in
chemical engineering from Clarkson University.

     Alan D. Bickell has served as a member of the board of directors since
April 1999. Mr. Bickell retired in 1996 after more than 30 years with Hewlett
Packard, serving as a corporate senior vice president and managing director of
geographic operations since 1992. Mr. Bickell also serves on the boards of
Asiainfo Holdings, Inc., Junior Achievement International and the Peking
University Educational Foundation (USA).

     Nicholas E. Brathwaite has served as a member of the board of directors
since January 2000. Mr. Brathwaite currently serves as senior vice president and
chief technology officer for Flextronics International, a provider of
engineering, advanced electronics manufacturing and logistical services, and has
held various engineering management positions with Flextronics since 1995. From
1989 to 1995, Mr. Brathwaite held various management positions at nChip, a
multi-chip module company.

     R. Scott Brown has served as member of the board of directors since July
1999. Mr. Brown has been retired since May 1999. From 1985 to May 1999, Mr.
Brown served as senior vice president of worldwide sales and support for Xilinx,
Inc., a designer and developer of complete programmable logic solutions for use
by electronic equipment manufacturers.

     E. Floyd Kvamme has served as a member of the board of directors since
September 1989. Mr. Kvamme has been a general partner of Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers, a venture capital company, since 1984. Mr. Kvamme also serves
on the boards of Brio Technology, Harmonic Inc., National Semiconductor, Photon
Dynamics and several private companies.

     Steven J. Sharp is one of our founders and has served as a member of the
board of directors since our inception. Mr. Sharp has served as president, chief
executive officer and chairman of the board of TriQuint Semiconductor, a
manufacturer of electronic components for the communications industry, since
September 1991.

