Item 1. Business

   Rambus Inc. ("Rambus" or the "Company") designs, develops, licenses and
markets high-speed chip connection technology to enhance the performance and
cost-effectiveness of computers, consumer electronics and communications
systems. The Company licenses semiconductor companies to manufacture and sell
memory and logic ICs incorporating Rambus chip connection technology and
markets its solution to systems companies to encourage them to design this
technology into their products. The Company's chip connection technology cost-
effectively increases the data transfer rate, or "memory bandwidth," allowing
semiconductor memory devices to keep pace with faster generations of processors
and controllers and thus supports the accelerating data transfer requirements
of multimedia and other high-bandwidth applications.

Background

   The performance of a computer or other electronic system is typically
constrained by the speed of its slowest element. In the past, that element was
the logic IC that controlled the system's specific functions and performed
calculations--the microprocessor. In recent years, however, new generations of
microprocessors and controllers have become substantially faster and more
powerful, and increasingly the bottleneck in system performance is becoming the
component that stores the instructions and data needed by the microprocessors
and controllers--the DRAM.

   Since 1980, the typical operating frequency of mainstream microprocessors
has increased from 5 MHz (million cycles per second) to over 1 GHz (billion
cycles per second). During this same period, the typical operating frequency of
a standard DRAM has increased only to 133 MHz. This growing disparity between
the frequency of microprocessors and DRAMs is termed the "Performance Gap."

                                       1
<PAGE>

   While microprocessors have undergone both manufacturing and architectural
improvements, significant innovations for DRAMs have generally only occurred in
the manufacturing area. DRAM manufacturers have been successful in increasing
DRAM "density," or storage capacity, from roughly 1 Kbit (thousand bits) to 128
Mbits (million bits) per chip for standard production devices, thereby reducing
the number of DRAMs required for a given amount of memory. However,
corresponding architectural improvements necessary to increase DRAM data
transfer rates to keep pace with increasing microprocessor speeds have not
occurred.

Rambus Technology

   Rambus has created a revolutionary chip connection architecture, which
addresses the Performance Gap by transferring data through a simplified bus at
significantly higher frequencies than permitted by conventional technologies.
To date, the largest immediate application for this interface technology is to
connect logic circuits to memory in home video game consoles, PCs, workstations
and other electronic systems. The key elements of the Rambus interface are
Rambus DRAMs ("RDRAMs"), Rambus ASIC cells ("RACs") and the interconnecting
circuitry known as the "Rambus Channel."

   Rambus chip connection technology allows data transfers of up to 1.6
gigabytes per second between a logic IC and RDRAMs by transferring data at a
frequency of 800 MHz over a two byte wide bus. System performance can be
further enhanced by applying Rambus technology to multiple channels on a logic
IC. For example, a Rambus-based logic IC can utilize four channels to achieve
data transfer of up to 6.4 gigabytes per second.

   Rambus technology can be used to address a wide variety of chip connection
data transfer requirements. The Company has recently announced its first non
memory-based technology, a SerDes cell. Similar to a RAC in the Rambus memory
technology, the SerDes cell provides a 3.125 gigabit per second data connection
for use in high-speed networks. Typical applications for this technology are
backplanes in high-speed network routers and switches.

Target Markets and Applications

   To date, the major markets for the Company's technology have been in
consumer products and in PCs/workstations. In the consumer area, the principal
application has been for home video game consoles. An earlier generation of the
Rambus chip connection technology is in the Nintendo64 video game console, and
current Rambus technology is used in the newest version of the Sony video game
system known as PlayStation 2. Other consumer applications for the Company's
technology include digital televisions, VCRs and set-top boxes which have
recently been introduced in Japan.

   In the PC/workstation market, Rambus memory technology is used to provide a
high memory bandwidth connection to Intel Pentium III processors. The
connections are provided via Rambus memory controllers, which are a portion of
two chipsets developed by Intel. One of these chipsets, designed for use in the
PC workstation market, has been highly successful and Rambus technology is now
fully established in this market. The other chipset, intended for the much
larger main PC market has been less successful due to a variety of factors
including inherent bandwidth limitations of the chipset design and relatively
high cost of RDRAMs compared to standard memory. In connection with the
introduction of its new processor, the Pentium 4, in late 2000, Intel has
designed a new chipset which includes a Rambus memory controller. There can be
no assurance that previous problems have been completely solved, that the
pricing of Rambus DRAMs will be reduced to a competitive level or that the
Intel chipset and Rambus technology will be successful in penetrating the
market segment for PC main memory.

   Other applications for the Company's technology include inkjet and laser
printers and networking equipment such as high-speed routers and Ethernet
switches.

Rambus Business Model and Strategy

   In order to establish Rambus interface technology as an industry standard,
the Company has adopted an innovative business model in which it neither
manufactures nor sells semiconductors incorporating the

                                       2
<PAGE>

Company's technology. The Company licenses its technology on a nonexclusive and
worldwide basis to semiconductor companies which manufacture and sell products
which incorporate Rambus technology. The Company offers two types of licenses.
The first, for technology which is fully compatible with the Rambus standard
("RDRAM-compatible licenses"), allows semiconductor manufacturers to
manufacture and sell RDRAMs and logic ICs containing RACs to systems companies
which have adopted Rambus technology. Systems companies are not required to
obtain a Rambus license to incorporate Rambus ICs into their products. However,
an important part of the Company's strategy is to maintain close ties to these
systems companies in order to encourage the adoption of Rambus technology.

   In the case of RDRAM-compatible licenses, the Rambus business model and
strategy are designed to promote Rambus as an industry standard, target leading
systems companies in markets that the Company believes represent the greatest
potential for Rambus-compatible IC sales, provide systems companies with
multiple sources for RDRAMs, share research and development efforts with
licensees, maintain technology leadership, pursue a system-level approach and
generate revenue through a combination of contract fees and royalties.

   The second type of license covers the use of Rambus patents in non-Rambus-
compatible ICs, specifically in synchronous DRAM ("SDRAM") and double data-rate
("DDR") SDRAM memory devices and logic ICs which control such memory. In the
case of these "SDRAM-compatible licenses," the Rambus business model and
strategy are designed to maximize the return on investment in R&D and patents
through the generation of license fees and royalties.

   Rambus provides licenses to both DRAM manufacturers and logic IC
manufacturers. At September 30, 2000, Rambus had a total of 28 RDRAM-compatible
licensees and four SDRAM-compatible licensees. RDRAM-compatible licensees
include ten DRAM manufacturers which collectively accounted for approximately
90% of worldwide DRAM sales in calendar 1999: Hitachi, Hyundai Electronics,
Infineon, Micron Technology, Mitsubishi, NEC, Samsung Electronics, Toshiba,
Vanguard and Winbond. At September 30, 2000, five of these licensees were
shipping RDRAMs. RDRAM-compatible logic licensees include Agilent Technologies,
Compaq, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Intel, LSI Logic, Matsushita, NEC, PMC Sierra,
Texas Instruments, Toshiba and Vitesse. At September 30, 2000, nine logic
licensees were shipping logic ICs which include RACs. At September 30, 2000,
SDRAM-compatible licensees were Hitachi, NEC, Oki Electric Industry and
Toshiba. After the end of the fiscal year the Company added Elpida Memory, a
joint venture of Hitachi and NEC, and Samsung Electronics as additional SDRAM-
compatible licensees. In fiscal 2000, Toshiba, NEC and Samsung accounted for
15%, 13% and 11% of total revenues, respectively.

   Royalties, which are generally a percentage of the revenues received by
licensees on their sales of licensed ICs, are normally payable by a Rambus
licensee on sales occurring during the life of the Rambus patents being
licensed in the case of RDRAM-compatible licenses, and over a five year
contract life in the case of SDRAM-compatible licenses. For a typical systems
application of Rambus technology, the Company receives royalties from the sale
of both licensed logic ICs and DRAMs as they are shipped by Rambus licensees.
Royalty rates range up to a maximum of approximately 2.5% for RDRAMs and a
maximum of approximately 5% for associated Rambus logic ICs, and in some cases
may decline based on the passage of time or on the total volume of Rambus ICs
shipped. In the case of SDRAM-compatible licenses, the royalty rates for SDRAMs
and associated controllers are generally less than the comparable RDRAM-
compatible rates, and for DDR and associated controllers the rates are
generally higher. The exact rate and structure of a royalty arrangement with a
particular licensee depend on a number of factors, including the amount of the
license fee to be paid by the licensee and, in the case of RDRAM-compatible
licenses, the marketing and engineering commitment made by the licensee.

Design and Manufacturing

   RDRAM-compatible technology has been developed to allow semiconductor
companies to use familiar, widely-available design tools and conventional
techniques when designing their Rambus-enabled chips. A new RDRAM-compatible
licensee receives an implementation package from the Company which contains all
the

                                       3
<PAGE>

information needed to develop a Rambus-compatible IC in the licensee's process.
There are separate implementation packages for RDRAMs and for RACs. An
implementation package includes a specification, a generalized circuit layout
database for the particular version of the RDRAM or RAC which the licensee
intends to develop, test parameter software and, for RDRAMs, a DRAM core
interface specification. Many RDRAM-compatible licensees have contracted to
have Rambus produce the specific implementation required to optimize the
generalized circuit layout for the licensee's manufacturing process. In such
cases, the licensee provides specific design rules and transistor models which
Rambus designers use to integrate RDRAM or RAC circuits into the licensee's
process. However, Rambus anticipates that as licensees become more familiar
with the RDRAM-compatible technology, they will be able to do more of the
implementation work without Rambus' assistance.

   Rambus has developed its RDRAM-compatible technology to be manufacturable
using familiar, industry-standard CMOS semiconductor processes. For this reason
the Company believes that the wafer fabrication yields of RDRAMs and logic
products containing RACs in mass-production volumes are consistent with those
for similar products in the same manufacturing facility and in the same stage
of production ramp. However, because of the extra Rambus interface circuitry
and other features, an RDRAM chip is somewhat larger than a standard SDRAM.
Therefore, a manufacturer will generally produce fewer RDRAMs than standard
SDRAMs for a given wafer size and an RDRAM chip will be somewhat more expensive
than the standard version. Also, RDRAM manufacturers are responsible for their
own manufacturing processes and Rambus has no role in the manufacture of
RDRAMs. For example, Rambus has no influence on decisions in regard to any
process changes or on whether or when to "shrink" or otherwise change a design
to reduce the cost of the chips.

   RDRAMs use newer-generation chip scale packaging ("CSP") and require high-
speed testers for a portion of the test procedure. While the Company feels that
testing costs for RDRAMs in mass production volumes will be no greater than for
current standard DRAMs, additional capital equipment is required and startup
costs are incurred by the manufacturers producing Rambus DRAMs. In addition,
for PC main memory applications memory modules (called "RIMMs"), connectors and
clock chips must be produced by multiple vendors and available in volume. There
is no assurance that such changes in the manufacturing processes and
infrastructure of the DRAM industry can be accomplished at a sufficiently
competitive price to allow the development of a mass market for RDRAM-
compatible technology.

Research and Development

   The ability of the Company to compete in the future will be substantially
dependent on its ability to advance its chip connection technology in order to
meet changing market needs. To this end, Company engineers are involved in
developing new versions of the Rambus technology which will allow chip-to-chip
data transfer at higher speeds as well as provide other improvements. The
Company has announced a 1066Mhz version of its current technology, as well as a
1.6GHz new generation which will be introduced in the future. The Company has
assembled a team of highly skilled engineers whose activities are focused on
further development of Rambus chip connection technology as well as adaptation
of current technology to specific licensees' processes. Because of the
complexity of these activities, the design and development process at Rambus is
a multi-disciplinary effort requiring expertise in computer architecture,
digital and analog circuit design and layout, DRAM and logic semiconductor
process characteristics, packaging, PCB routing and high-speed testing
techniques.

   As of September 30, 2000, Rambus had 110 employees in its engineering
departments. Approximately two thirds of these employees have advanced
technical degrees. In fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, research and development
expenses were approximately $11.5 million, $8.1 million and $9.6 million,
respectively. In addition, because the Company's RDRAM-compatible license
agreements often call for engineering support by Rambus, a substantial portion
of the Company's total engineering costs has been allocated to cost of contract
revenues, even though these engineering efforts have direct applicability to
Rambus' technology development. The Company expects that it will continue to
invest substantial funds in research and development activities. There can be
no assurance that new versions of the Rambus interface technology can be
developed and introduced by the

                                       4
<PAGE>

Company's licensees in a timely fashion or that such new technology will be
accepted by the market. Moreover, the end markets for the Company's technology
are subject to rapid technological change and there can be no assurance that as
such markets change the Company's interface technology will remain current and
suitable.

Competition

   The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been
characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life
cycles, cyclical market patterns and increasing foreign and domestic
competition. Most major DRAM manufacturers, including Rambus licensees, produce
higher-frequency versions of standard DRAMs such as SDRAMs which compete with
RDRAMs. These companies are much larger and have better access to financial,
certain technical and other resources than Rambus.

   The Company believes that its success in establishing a new high-speed
memory interface has been due in part to the systems approach it has taken to
solving the application needs of companies in home video console, PC and other
electronic systems businesses. However, the Company believes competitors have
begun to take a similar approach. The Company believes that its principal
competition will come from its RDRAM-compatible licensees and prospective
licensees, many of which are evaluating and developing products based on
alternative technologies. Some DRAM suppliers have begun to produce DDR SDRAMs,
aimed at doubling the memory bandwidth from SDRAMs without increasing the clock
frequency. While Rambus has been successful in negotiating SDRAM-compatible
licenses with some DRAM manufacturers which include the payment of royalties on
DDR, other manufacturers have not agreed to a license and are in litigation
with the Company. See "Legal Proceedings."

   A consortium including both large DRAM manufacturers and systems companies
is thought to be developing an extension of DDR known as DDR-2 and another
consortium is working on advanced DRAM technology ("ADT"). To the extent that
these alternative technologies provide comparable system performance at lower
or similar cost than RDRAMs, or are perceived to require the payment of lower
royalties, the Company's licensees and prospective licensees may adopt and
promote the alternative technologies. There can be no assurance that the
Company's future competition will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. While the
Company might determine that such alternative technologies, when and if
developed, infringe the Company's patents, there can be no assurance that the
Company would be able to negotiate agreements which would result in royalties
paid to the Company without litigation, which could be costly and the result of
which would be uncertain.

   In addition, certain semiconductor companies are now marketing ICs which
combine logic and DRAM on the same chip. Such technology, called "embedded
DRAM," eliminates the need for any chip connection interface. Embedded DRAMs
are well suited for applications where component space saving and power
consumption are important, such as in the graphics subsystems of notebook PCs.
There can be no assurance that competition from embedded DRAMs will not
increase in the future.

Patents and Intellectual Property Protection

   The Company has an active program to protect its proprietary technology
through the filing of patents. At September 30, 2000, the Company held 97
United States patents on various aspects of its technology, with expiration
dates ranging from 2010 to 2019 and had applications pending for an additional
approximately 120 United States patents. The Company's United States patents do
not prevent the manufacture or sale of Rambus-based ICs abroad. At September
30, 2000, the Company held twelve foreign patents and had an additional
approximately 43 foreign patent applications pending in Europe and Asia. In
addition, the Company attempts to protect its trade secrets and other
proprietary information through agreements with licensees and systems
companies, proprietary information agreements with employees and consultants
and other security measures. The Company also relies on trademarks and trade
secret laws to protect its intellectual property.

   Rambus believes that it is important to develop and maintain a uniform RDRAM
memory interface standard. The Company's RDRAM-compatible contracts generally
prevent a licensee from using licensee-

                                       5
<PAGE>

developed patented improvements related to Rambus technology to block other
licensees from using the improvements or requiring them to pay additional
royalties related to their use of Rambus chip connection technology.
Specifically, the contracts generally require licensees to grant to Rambus a
royalty-free cross-license on patented licensee intellectual property related
to the implementation of Rambus interface technology, which Rambus sublicenses
to other licensees which have entered into similar arrangements. Nonetheless,
there is no assurance that such a blocking arrangement will not occur in the
future.

Factors Affecting Future Results

   Current and Potential Litigation. As the Company has extended its licensing
program to SDRAM-compatible products, it has increasingly become involved in
litigation either instigated by the Company or by the potential licensee. As of
September 30, 2000, the Company was in litigation with three such potential
SDRAM-compatible licensees. In each of these cases, the Company has claimed
infringement of its patents whereas the potential licensees have generally
sought damages and a determination that the Rambus patents at suit are invalid
and not infringed. While the Company's objective in all these cases is to
achieve settlements resulting in SDRAM-compatible licenses, there can be no
assurance that such settlements will take place, that the Company will prevail
if there is no settlement or that additional litigation will not result from
future efforts by the Company to obtain additional SDRAM-compatible licenses.
In addition, future litigation may be necessary to enforce the Company's
patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect the Company's trade
secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of
others, and there can be no assurance that the Company would prevail in any
future litigation. Any such litigation, whether or not determined in the
Company's favor or settled by the Company, is costly and could divert the
efforts and attention of the Company's management and technical personnel from
normal business operations, which would have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse
determinations in litigation could result in the loss of the Company's
proprietary rights, subject the Company to significant liabilities, require the
Company to seek licenses from third parties or prevent the Company from
licensing its technology, any of which could have a material adverse effect on
the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

   In any potential dispute involving the Company's patents or other
intellectual property, the Company's licensees could also become the target of
litigation. While the Company generally does not indemnify its licensees, some
of its RDRAM-compatible license agreements require the Company to provide
technical support and information to a licensee which is involved in litigation
involving use of Rambus technology. The Company is bound to indemnify certain
licensees under the terms of certain RDRAM-compatible license agreements, and
the Company may agree to indemnify others in the future. The Company's support
and indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenses to the
Company. In addition to the time and expense required for the Company to supply
such support or indemnification to its licensees, a licensee's development,
marketing and sales of RDRAM-compatible ICs could be severely disrupted or shut
down as a result of litigation, which in turn could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations.

   Unpredictable and Fluctuating Operating Results. Because many of the
Company's revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and its
expenses are largely independent of revenues in any particular period, it is
difficult for the Company to accurately forecast revenues and profitability.
Until the fourth quarter of FY 2000, contract revenues had represented the
largest portion of the Company's revenues. The Company recognizes contract
revenues ratably over the period during which post-contract customer support on
RDRAM-compatible licenses is expected to be provided. While this means that
contract revenues from current licenses are generally predictable, changes can
be introduced by a reevaluation by Company management of the length of the
post-contract support period. The initial estimate of this period is subject to
revision as the RDRAM-compatible IC being developed under a contract nears
production, and such revision will result in an increase or decrease to the
quarterly revenue for that contract. In addition, accurate prediction of
revenues from new licenses is difficult because the development of a business
relationship with a potential licensee is a lengthy

                                       6
<PAGE>

process, frequently spanning a year or more, and the fiscal period in which a
new license agreement will be entered into, if at all, and the financial terms
of such an agreement are difficult to predict. Contract revenues also include
fees for engineering services, which are dependent upon the varying level of
assistance desired by licensees and, therefore, the revenue from these services
is also difficult to predict. Adding to the complexity of making accurate
financial forecasts is the fact that certain expenses associated with a
particular contract may not be incurred evenly over the contract period,
whereas contract fees associated with that contract are recognized ratably over
the period during which the post-contract customer support is expected to be
provided.

   Royalties accounted for 74% of total revenues in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2000 and 45% of total revenues in the full fiscal year. The Company
believes that royalties will represent the majority of total revenue in future
periods. Increasing royalty revenues will add to the difficulty in making
accurate financial forecasts. Such royalties are recognized in the quarter in
which the Company receives a report from a licensee regarding the shipment of
licensed ICs in the prior quarter, and are dependent upon fluctuating sales
volumes and prices of chips containing Rambus technology, all of which are
beyond the Company's ability to control or assess in advance. The Company
believes that its continued success will be substantially dependent upon
royalties increasing at a rate which more than offsets decreases in the
recognition of revenue under existing contracts, as well as the Company's
ability to add new licensees and to license new generations of its technology
to its existing licensees. Because a systems company can change its source of
licensed ICs at any time, and because the new Rambus license source could have
different royalty rates, any such change by a systems company, particularly one
which accounts for substantial volumes of licensed ICs, could have a sudden and
significant adverse effect on the Company's revenues.

   The Company's business is subject to a variety of additional risks which
could materially adversely affect quarterly and annual operating results,
including market acceptance of the Company's technology; systems companies'
acceptance of RDRAM-compatible ICs produced by the Company's licensees; market
acceptance of the products of systems companies which have adopted the
Company's technology; the loss of any strategic relationships with systems
companies or licensees; announcements or introductions of new technologies or
products by the Company or the Company's competitors; delays or problems in the
introduction or performance of enhancements or future generations of the
Company's technology; fluctuations in the market price and demand for DRAMs and
logic ICs into which the Company's technology has been incorporated;
competitive pressures resulting in lower contract revenues or royalty rates;
changes in the Company's and system companies' development schedules and levels
of expenditure on research and development; personnel changes, particularly
those involving engineering and technical personnel; costs associated with
protecting the Company's intellectual property; changes in Company strategies;
foreign exchange rate fluctuations or other changes in the international
business climate; and general economic trends and other factors.

   Volatility of Stock Price. The trading price of the Company's Common Stock
has been subject to wide fluctuations which may continue in the future in
response to quarterly variations in operating results; progress or lack of
progress in the development of RDRAM-compatible ICs by licensees or RDRAM-based
products by systems companies; signing or not signing new licensees, especially
for SDRAM-compatible licenses; new litigation or developments in current
litigation; announcements of technological innovations or new products by the
Company, its licensees or its competitors; developments with respect to patents
or proprietary rights and other events or factors. The trading price of the
Company's Common Stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response
to the publication of reports and changes in financial estimates by securities
analysts, and it is possible that the Company's actual results in one or more
future periods will fall short of those estimates by securities analysts. In
addition, the equity markets have experienced volatility that has particularly
affected the market prices of equity securities of many high technology
companies and that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the
operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may
adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock.

   Dependence upon Limited Number of Licensees. The Company neither
manufactures nor sells devices containing its interface technology. Rather, the
Company licenses its technology to semiconductor companies,

                                       7
<PAGE>

which in turn manufacture and sell licensed ICs to systems companies which
incorporate Rambus technology into their products. The Company's strategy to
become an industry standard is dependent upon the Company's ability to make its
technology widely available to systems companies through multiple semiconductor
manufacturers, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be
successful in maintaining its relationships with its current licensees or in
entering into new relationships with additional licensees. The Company faces
numerous risks in successfully obtaining RDRAM-compatible licensees on terms
consistent with the Company's business model, including, among others, the
lengthy and expensive process of building a relationship with a potential
licensee before there is any assurance of a license agreement with such party;
persuading large semiconductor companies to work with, to rely for critical
technology on, and to disclose proprietary manufacturing technology to, a
smaller company such as Rambus; persuading potential licensees to bear certain
development costs associated with Rambus technology and to make the necessary
investment to successfully produce RDRAM-compatible ICs; and successfully
transferring technical know-how to licensees. To obtain new SDRAM-compatible
licenses the Company may have to resort to litigation, in many cases against
the same companies who are RDRAM-compatible licensees of the Company. In
addition, there are a relatively limited number of larger semiconductor
companies to which the Company could license its interface technology in a
manner consistent with its business model. The Company believes that its
principal competition may come from its licensees and prospective licensees,
many of which are evaluating and developing products based on alternative
technologies.

   Dependence upon Systems Companies. Although sales of RDRAM-compatible ICs to
systems companies which have adopted the Company's technology for their
products are not made directly by the Company, such sales directly affect the
amount of royalties from RDRAM-compatible ICs received by the Company.
Therefore, the Company's success is partially dependent upon the adoption of
the Company's chip connection technology by systems companies, particularly
those which develop and market high-volume business and consumer products such
as home video game consoles and PCs. The Company is subject to many risks
beyond its control that influence the success or failure of a particular
systems company, including among others competition faced by the systems
company in its particular industry; market acceptance of the systems company's
products; the engineering, sales and marketing and management capabilities of
the systems company; technical challenges unrelated to Rambus technology faced
by the systems company in developing its products; and the financial and other
resources of the systems company. The process of persuading systems companies
to adopt the Company's technology can be lengthy and, even if adopted, there
can be no assurance that the Rambus technology will be used in a product that
is ultimately brought to market, achieves commercial acceptance or results in
significant royalties to the Company. Rambus must dedicate substantial
resources to market to and support systems companies, in addition to supporting
the sales and marketing and technical efforts of its licensees in promoting
Rambus technology to systems companies. Even if a systems company develops a
Rambus-based product, success in the market will depend in part on a supply of
ICs from Rambus licensees in sufficient quantities and at commercially
attractive prices. Because the Company does not control the business practices
of its licensees, it has no ability to establish the prices at which its
technology is made available to systems companies or the degree to which its
licensees promote Rambus technology to systems companies.

   No Assurance of Adoption of RDRAM-Compatible Technology as an Industry
Standard; Cost of RDRAM-Compatible Technology. An important part of the
Company's strategy for its RDRAM-compatible technology to become an industry
standard is to penetrate new markets by targeting leaders in those markets.
This strategy is designed to encourage other participants in those markets to
follow such leaders in adopting RDRAM-compatible technology. Should a high
profile industry participant adopt RDRAM-compatible technology for one or more
of its products but fail to achieve success with those products, other industry
participants' perception of RDRAM-compatible technology could be adversely
affected. Any such event could reduce future sales of RDRAM-compatible ICs.
Likewise, were a market leader to adopt and achieve success with a competing
technology, the Company's reputation and sales could be adversely affected. In
addition, some industry participants have adopted, and others may in the future
adopt, a strategy of disparaging the Rambus solution adopted by their
competitors. Failure of the Company's technology to be adopted as an industry

                                       8
<PAGE>

standard would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
financial condition and results of operations.

   One important requirement for the Company's RDRAM-compatible technology to
be adopted as an industry standard is for any premium in the price and cost of
Rambus memory over alternatives to be reasonable in comparison to the perceived
benefits of the technology. However, there can be no assurance that the price
and cost premium for RDRAMs over standard memory can be reduced sufficiently to
allow the development of Rambus as an industry standard. To date, RDRAMs have
had a lower than desired yield to the full 800 MHz specification, and some
parts have had to be sold at a lower price based on a 700 MHz or even a 600 MHz
specification. There can be no assurance that a market for such downgraded
RDRAMs will continue to be available or that yields to the full 800 MHz
specification will reach satisfactory levels. In addition, because of the extra
Rambus interface circuitry and other features, an RDRAM chip is somewhat larger
than a standard DRAM. Therefore, a manufacturer will generally produce fewer
RDRAMs than standard DRAMs for a given wafer size and an RDRAM chip will be
somewhat more expensive than the standard version. Also, RDRAM manufacturers
are responsible for their own manufacturing processes and Rambus has no role in
the manufacture of RDRAMs. For example, Rambus has no influence on decisions in
regard to any process changes or on whether or when to "shrink" or otherwise
change a design to reduce the cost of the chips.

   RDRAMs use newer-generation chip scale packaging ("CSP") and require high-
speed testers for a portion of the test procedure. While the Company feels that
testing costs for RDRAMs in mass production volumes will be no greater than for
current standard DRAMs, additional capital equipment is required and startup
costs are incurred by the manufacturers producing RDRAMs. In addition, for PC
main memory applications memory modules (called "RIMMs"), connectors and clock
chips must be produced by multiple vendors and available in volume. There is no
assurance that such changes in the manufacturing processes and infrastructure
of the DRAM industry can be accomplished at a sufficiently competitive price to
allow the development of a mass market for RDRAM-compatible technology.

   Dependence upon PC Main Memory Market Segment and Intel. An important part
of the Company's strategy is for its RDRAM-compatible technology to penetrate
the market segment for PC main memory. Rambus believes that PC main memory
currently accounts for more than one-half of all DRAMs sold. To date, the only
use of RDRAM-compatible technology in this market is via two chipsets developed
by Intel which allow RDRAMs to connect to Pentium III processors. One of these
chipsets, designed for use in the PC workstation market, has been highly
successful and Rambus technology is now fully established in this market. The
other chipset, intended for the much larger main PC market has been less
successful due to a variety of factors including inherent bandwidth limitations
of the chipset design and relatively high cost of RDRAMs compared to standard
memory. In connection with the scheduled introduction in late 2000 of its new
processor, the Pentium 4, Intel has designed a new chipset which includes a
Rambus memory controller. There can be no assurance that previous problems have
been completely solved, that the pricing of Rambus DRAMs will be reduced to a
competitive level or that the Intel chipset and Rambus technology will be
successful in penetrating the market segment for PC main memory. Furthermore,
there can be no assurance that Intel's current emphasis or priorities will not
change in the future, resulting in less attention and fewer resources being
devoted to developing Rambus-based chipsets. Also, there can be no assurance
that Rambus and Intel will continue to be able to work together successfully
over an extended period of time nor that Intel will not develop or adopt
competing technologies in the future.

   Revenue Concentration. The Company is subject to revenue concentration risks
at both the licensee and the systems company levels. In fiscal 2000, 1999, and
1998, revenues from the Company's top five licensees accounted for
approximately 54%, 47% and 49% of the Company's revenues, respectively. In
fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998 NEC accounted for approximately 13%, 11% and 22% of
revenues, respectively. Also in fiscal 2000, Toshiba and Samsung accounted for
15% and 11% of revenues, respectively. In fiscal 1999, two other licensees
accounted for 11% and 10% of revenues. Because the revenues derived from
various licensees vary from period to period depending on the addition of new
contracts, the expiration of deferred revenue schedules

                                       9
<PAGE>

under existing contracts and the volumes and prices at which the licensees have
recently sold licensed ICs to systems companies, the particular licensees which
account for revenue concentration have varied from period to period. These
variations are expected to continue in the foreseeable future although the
Company anticipates that revenue will continue to be concentrated in a limited
number of licensees.

   The royalties received by the Company are a function of the adoption of
Rambus technology at the systems company level. Systems companies purchase
semiconductors containing Rambus technology from Rambus licensees, and
generally do not have a direct contractual relationship with the Company. The
Company's licensees generally do not provide detail as to the identity of, or
volume of licensed ICs purchased by, particular systems companies. As a result,
the Company faces difficulty in analyzing the extent to which its future
revenues will be dependent upon particular systems companies. However, the
Company believes that in fiscal 2000 it is likely that sales by licensees to
Nintendo, Sony and to PC manufacturers accounted for the majority of the
Company's royalty revenues. All these systems companies face intense
competitive pressure in their markets, which are characterized by extreme
volatility, frequent new product introductions and rapidly shifting consumer
preferences, and there can be no assurance as to the unit volumes of licensed
ICs that will be purchased by these companies in the future or the level of
royalty-bearing revenues that the Company's licensees will receive from sales
to these companies. There can be no assurance that a significant number of
other systems companies will adopt the Company's technology or that the
Company's dependence upon particular systems companies will decrease in the
future.

   Reliance upon DRAM Market; Declines in DRAM Price and Unit Volume per
System. In fiscal 2000, a majority of the Company's royalties was derived from
the sale of DRAMs. Royalties on DRAMs are based on the volumes and prices of
DRAMs manufactured and sold by the Company's licensees. The royalties received
by the Company therefore are influenced by many of the risks faced by the DRAM
market in general, including constraints on the volumes shipped during periods
of shortage and reduced average selling prices during periods of surplus. The
DRAM market is intensely competitive and generally is characterized by
declining average selling prices over the life of a generation of chips. Such
price decreases, and the corresponding decreases in per unit royalties received
by the Company, can be sudden and dramatic. Compounding the effect of price
decreases is the fact that, under certain of the Company's RDRAM-compatible
license agreements, royalty rates decrease as a function of time or volume.
With the introduction of each new generation of higher density DRAMs, the
Company generally expects higher prices resulting in higher royalties per
device, but with correspondingly fewer devices required per system. There can
be no assurance that decreases in DRAM prices or in the Company's royalty rates
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of
operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company
will be successful in maintaining or increasing its share of any market.

   Rapid Technological Change; Reliance on Fundamental Technology; Importance
of Timely New Product Development. The semiconductor industry is characterized
by rapid technological change, with new generations of semiconductors being
introduced periodically and with ongoing evolutionary improvements. Since
beginning operations in 1990, the Company has derived all of its revenue from
its chip connection technology and expects that this dependence on its
fundamental technology will continue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly,
broad acceptance of the Company's technology is critical to the Company's
future success. The introduction or market acceptance of competing technology
which renders the Company's chip connection technology less desirable or
obsolete would have a rapid and material adverse effect on the Company's
business, results of operations and financial condition. The announcement of
new products by the Company could cause licensees or systems companies to delay
or defer entering into arrangements for the use of the Company's technology,
which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial
condition and results of operations.

   The Company's operating results will depend to a significant extent on its
ability to introduce enhancements and new generations of its chip connection
technology which keep pace with other changes in the semiconductor industry and
which achieve rapid market acceptance. The Company must continually devote

                                       10
<PAGE>

significant engineering resources to addressing the ever-increasing need for
memory bandwidth associated with increases in the speed of microprocessors and
other controllers. Technical innovations of the type that will be required for
the Company to be successful are inherently complex and require long
development cycles, and there can be no assurance that the Company's
development efforts will ultimately be successful. In addition, these
innovations must be completed before changes in the semiconductor industry have
rendered them obsolete, must be available when systems companies require these
innovations, and must be sufficiently compelling to cause semiconductor
manufacturers to enter into licensing arrangements with Rambus for the new
technology. There can be no assurance that Rambus will be able to meet these
requirements. Moreover, significant technological innovations generally require
a substantial investment before their commercial viability can be determined.
There can be no assurance that the Company will have the financial resources
necessary to fund future development, that the Company's licensees will
continue to share certain research and development costs with the Company as
they have in the past, or that revenues from enhancements or new generations of
the Company's technology, even if successfully developed, will exceed the costs
of development.

   Competition. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has
been characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, short product
life cycles, cyclical market patterns and increasing foreign and domestic
competition. Most major DRAM manufacturers, including Rambus licensees, produce
higher-frequency versions of standard DRAMs such as SDRAMs which compete with
RDRAMs. These companies are much larger and have better access to financial,
certain technical and other resources than Rambus.

   The Company believes that its principal competition may come from its
licensees and prospective licensees, many of which are evaluating and
developing products based on alternative technologies and are beginning to take
a systems approach similar to the Company's in solving the application needs of
systems companies. Some DRAM suppliers have begun to produce DDR SDRAMs, aimed
at doubling the memory bandwidth from SDRAMs without increasing the clock
frequency. While Rambus has been successful in negotiating SDRAM-compatible
licenses with some DRAM manufacturers which include the payment of royalties on
DDR, other manufacturers have not agreed to a license and are in litigation
with the Company.

   A consortium including both large DRAM manufacturers and systems companies
is thought to be developing an extension of DDR known as DDR-2 and another
consortium is working on advanced DRAM technology ("ADT"). To the extent that
these alternative technologies provide comparable system performance at lower
or similar cost than RDRAMs, or are perceived to require the payment of lower
royalties, the Company's licensees and prospective licensees may adopt and
promote the alternative technologies. There can be no assurance that the
Company's future competition will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. While the
Company might determine that such alternative technologies, when and if
developed, infringe the Company's patents, there can be no assurance that the
Company would be able to negotiate agreements which would result in royalties
paid to the Company without litigation, which could be costly and the result of
which would be uncertain.

   In addition, certain semiconductor companies are now marketing ICs which
combine logic and DRAM on the same chip. Such technology, called "embedded
DRAM," eliminates the need for any chip connection interface. Embedded DRAMs
are well suited for applications where component space saving and power
consumption are important, such as in the graphics subsystems of notebook PCs.
There can be no assurance that competition from embedded DRAMs will not
increase in the future.

   Limited Protection of Intellectual Property. While the Company has an active
program to protect its proprietary technology through the filing of patents,
there can be no assurance that the Company's pending United States or foreign
patent applications or any future United States or foreign patent applications
will be approved, that any issued patents will protect the Company's
intellectual property or will not be challenged by third parties, or that the
patents of others will not have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to
do business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not
independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any
patents that may be issued to the Company.

                                       11
<PAGE>

   The Company attempts to protect its trade secrets and other proprietary
information through agreements with licensees and systems companies,
proprietary information agreements with employees and consultants and other
security measures. The Company also relies on trademarks and trade secret laws
to protect its intellectual property. Despite these efforts, there can be no
assurance that others will not gain access to the Company's trade secrets, or
that the Company can meaningfully protect its intellectual property. In
addition, effective trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in
certain foreign countries. Although the Company intends to protect its rights
vigorously, there can be no assurance that such measures will be successful.

   Rambus believes that it is important to develop and maintain a uniform RDRAM
memory interface standard. The Company's RDRAM-compatible contracts generally
prevent a licensee from using licensee-developed patented improvements related
to Rambus technology to block other licensees from using the improvements or
requiring them to pay additional royalties related to their use of Rambus
interface technology. Specifically, the contracts generally require licensees
to grant to Rambus a royalty-free cross-license on patented licensee
intellectual property related to the implementation of Rambus interface
technology, which Rambus sublicenses to other licensees that have entered into
similar arrangements. Nonetheless, there is no assurance that such a blocking
arrangement will not occur in the future.

   Risks Associated with International Licenses. In fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998,
international revenues constituted approximately 82%, 60% and 73% of the
Company's total revenues, respectively. The Company expects that revenues
derived from international licensees will continue to represent a significant
portion of its total revenues in the future. All of the revenues from
international licensees have to date been denominated in United States dollars.
However, to the extent that such licensees' sales to systems companies are not
denominated in United States dollars, any royalties that the Company receives
as a result of such sales could be subject to fluctuations in currency exchange
rates. In addition, if the effective price of licensed ICs sold by the
Company's foreign licensees were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the
exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for licensed ICs could fall,
which in turn would reduce the Company's royalties. The Company does not use
derivative instruments to hedge foreign exchange rate risk. In addition,
international operations and demand for the products of the Company's licensees
are subject to a variety of risks, including tariffs, import restrictions and
other trade barriers, changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts
receivable payment cycles, adverse tax consequences, export license
requirements, foreign government regulation, political and economic instability
and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. In particular, the laws of
certain countries in which the Company currently licenses or may in the future
license its technology require significant withholding taxes on payments for
intellectual property, which the Company may not be able to offset fully
against its United States tax obligations. The Company is subject to the
further risk of the tax authorities in those countries recharacterizing certain
engineering fees as license fees, which could result in increased tax
withholdings and penalties. The Company's licensees are subject to many of the
risks described above with respect to systems companies which are located in
different countries, particularly video game console and PC manufacturers
located in Asia and elsewhere. There can be no assurance that one or more of
the risks associated with international licenses of the Company's technology
will not have a direct or indirect material adverse effect on the Company's
business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the laws of
certain foreign countries in which the Company's technology is or may in the
future be licensed may not protect the Company's intellectual property rights
to the same extent as the laws of the United States, thus increasing the
possibility of infringement of the Company's intellectual property.

   Dependence on Key Personnel. The Company's success depends to a significant
extent on its ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified
technical, sales, marketing, finance and executive personnel. Because the
future success of the Company is dependent upon its ability to continue
enhancing and introducing new generations of such technology, the Company is
particularly dependent upon its ability to identify, attract, motivate and
retain qualified engineers with the requisite educational background and
industry experience. Competition for qualified engineers, particularly those
with significant industry experience, is intense. The Company is also dependent
upon its senior management personnel, most of whom have worked together at the
Company for several years. The loss of the services of any of the senior
management personnel or a significant

                                       12
<PAGE>

number of the Company's engineers could be disruptive to the Company's
development efforts or business relationships and could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations. The Company generally does not enter into employment contracts with
its employees and does not maintain key person life insurance.

   Management of Expanded Operations. The Company is not experienced in
managing rapid growth. The Company may not be equipped to successfully manage
any future periods of rapid growth or expansion, which could be expected to
place a significant strain on the Company's limited managerial, financial,
engineering and other resources. The Company's RDRAM-compatible licensees and
systems companies rely heavily on the Company's technological expertise in
designing, testing and manufacturing products incorporating the Company's
interface technologies. Relationships with new RDRAM-compatible licensees or
systems companies generally require significant engineering support. As a
result, any increases in adoption of the Company's technology will increase the
strain on the Company's resources, particularly the Company's engineers. Any
delays or difficulties in the Company's research and development process caused
by these factors or others could make it difficult for the Company to develop
future generations of its interface technology and to remain competitive. In
addition, the rapid rate of hiring new employees could be disruptive and
adversely affect the efficiency of the Company's research and development
process. The rate of the Company's future expansion, if any, in combination
with the complexity of the technology involved in the Company's licensee-based
business model, may demand an unusually high level of managerial effectiveness
in anticipating, planning, coordinating and meeting the operational needs of
the Company as well as the needs of the licensees and systems companies.
Additionally, the Company may be required to reorganize its managerial
structure in order to more effectively respond to the needs of customers. Given
the small pool of potential licensees and target systems companies, the adverse
effect on the Company resulting from a lack of effective management in any of
these areas will be magnified. Inability to manage the expansion of the
Company's business would have a material adverse effect on its business,
financial condition and results of operations.
