ITEM 1. BUSINESS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth under "Certain Factors Affecting Business, Operating Results, and Financial Condition" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the "Company," "Sigma," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Sigma Designs, Inc.

Overview

Founded in 1982, Sigma Designs, Inc. specializes in silicon-based moving picture experts group, or MPEG, decoding solutions for broadband set-top appliances and commercial streaming systems that feature video-on-demand, or VOD. Headquartered in Milpitas, Calif., Sigma also has a research and development center in France, as well as sales offices in China, Europe, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea and Taiwan. Our award-winning REALmagic video-streaming technology is used in both commercial and consumer applications, providing highly integrated solutions for high-quality decoding of MPEG-1, MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 content. Based on this core technology, Sigma has developed system solutions for convergence products including streaming video, DVD playback, Internet connectivity and personal video recording. Sigma's products are sold worldwide through a direct sales force, distributors and original equipment manufactures.

A pioneer in the MPEG hardware decoder market, we introduced our REALmagic card in 1993, an MPEG playback card for PCs. In April 1997, we announced our entry into the DVD market. A key element of DVD specification is the use of MPEG-2 standards for digital video compression, a technology with which Sigma has established expertise. Our MPEG-2 chips and add-in boards have been used worldwide in leading multimedia PC platforms to enable applications such as DVD title creation, DVD decoding, streaming video and IP multicasting. 

During the past few years, Sigma has expanded well beyond its PC card beginnings and is working with telecommunication companies, or telcos and cable operators on trial deployments involving advanced DSL, broadband over cable, fiber to the home, and other networks for delivering VOD to consumer homes, multiple dwelling units and commercial hotel chains. This involvement has led to technology investments in streaming video silicon and software. At the end of 2001, Sigma introduced the industry's first DVD resolution MPEG-4 decoder chip for set-top appliances, establishing a unique position to contribute to the deployment of next generation capabilities.

Industry Partnerships

To meet customer needs for a complete solution for set-top appliances, Sigma has developed strong partnerships with leading suppliers of chipsets, system software and video servers/encoders. 

Complete solutions for streaming include key vendors of video servers, MPEG encoders and IP video routers, which include Apple, Cisco, Concurrent, Envivio, Infovalue, iVAST, Minerva, nCUBE, OKI, SGI, Streaming21, Sun Microsystems and Thirdspace.

Sigma's set-top appliance reference designs depend on vendors of processors, graphics controllers, video encoders and digital TV front-end chipsets, including B2C2, Focus Enhancements, Intel, National Semiconductor, Silicon Image, Cirrus Logic and TVIA. 

In addition, Sigma is working with the following vendors of operating systems, middleware (DVD, DTV, VOD, PVR and Internet) and drivers to provide complete solutions for advanced set-top appliances, which include DTVRo, Enreach, Inprimis, Liberate, Metro Link, Microsoft and Tuxia.

Sigma Business Strategy

Our objective is to provide leading digital video decoding solutions that enable full-screen, full-motion, best quality video in streaming applications and on internet set-top boxes, and consumer DVD players. To accomplish this goal, we need to promote widespread acceptance of REALmagic technology and solutions. The key parts of this strategy include:

Win More Set-Top Box Partnerships

We are actively working with several partners to promote use of our silicon solutions for video on demand and DVD playback in set-top box applications. We will continue to nurture these relationships in order to associate with the volume manufacturers of these set-top boxes and enable more opportunities for uses of our silicon solutions. So far, these relationships have focused on set-top box designs that provide Internet connections via conventional dial up or Digital Subscriber Line, or DSL, technology and to a limited extend, cable networks. We are actively seeking additional relationships with an expanded set of network providers and manufacturers in these and other segments.

Introduce New Generations of Decoder Chipsets 

A significant aspect of our product strategy is to increase the sale of chipsets featuring our REALmagic Video Streaming Technology while continuing to develop newer versions and generations of products, including chipsets for set-top boxes, consumer DVD progressive players, and HDTV applications. We seek to continue to offer consumers better-featured and lower-priced products over time.

Sigma Products 

Sigma currently markets products primarily in two forms, chipsets and board-level products. 

Chipset Products

Sigma's line of MPEG decoder chips featuring REALmagic video streaming technology is designed to provide the highest quality video possible. We complement our silicon technology with an embedded software base, portable to a wide range of operating environments. Featuring VOD and DVD client players, Sigma's software is available under Windows, Linux and WinCE operating systems. 

EM8220/8300 series - provides MPEG-1 and 2 video decoding solutions for PC-based DVD playback and streaming video, which won wide acclaim as the top MPEG hardware for the PC, and included retail offerings by Panasonic.

EM8400 series - provides MPEG-1 and 2 video and audio decoding for broadband interactive set-top boxes, and has achieved over 40 design wins in its target segment, including such notables as Fujitsu-Siemens, Acer and Samsung.

EM8470 series - represents the first MPEG-4 silicon solution for the set-top box market, in a form that is pin-compatible with our widespread EM8400 to enable convenient upgrades to the latest decoding format. 

Board-Level Products

Sigma board level products, which are based on our silicon and software technology, are marked into both commercial streaming video and consumer PC add-in markets. 

NetStream 2000 Series - PC add-in cards featuring high performance MPEG-1 and 2 decoding, bring streaming video to virtually any PC-based system.

REALmagic DVR - a desktop PC add-in solution that plugs into a standard PCI slot, and works with standard DVD writeable media to enable encoding and authoring of DVD titles in a corporate or educational environment. 

REALmagic Xcard - a consumer PC add-in solution that creates a home theatre solution by plugging into a standard PCI slot and providing TV output from content collected in DVD, VCD, DivX and ISMA MPEG-4 formats. 

REALmagic Hollywood Plus - a consumer PC add-in solution that plugs into a standard PCI slot, and provides PC-based hardware playback of DVD or VideoCD content. 

Other Products and Services

In addition to Sigma's main lines of product, we also offer stand-alone systems, primarily our NetStream console, as well as professional development services. 

Reference Designs

As a marketing tool, Sigma provides reference designs, which are end-user prototype designs showing how our silicon solutions integrate into complex consumer appliances. These reference designs serve several purposes, including proof of concept to prospective customers, as well as an invaluable research and development experience for our engineers who develop the integrated end solution. This process always gives us ideas for what to incorporate into our next generation solutions.

Marketing and Sales

We currently sell most of our products through our direct sales force. We augment these sales through a select set of distributors and VARs operating in different regions of the world. Our U.S. distributor is Ingram Micro, Inc. Our OEMs include EPOX, Fujitsu-Siemens GCT-Allwell, Kreatel and Lung Hwa Electronics Co., Ltd. Our international distributors are strategically located in many countries around the world.

We generally maintain products for distribution through corporate markets based on forecasts rather than firm purchase orders. Additionally, we generally acquire products for sale to our OEM customers only after receiving purchase orders from such customers, which purchase orders are typically cancelable without substantial penalty from such OEM customers. We currently place non-cancelable orders to purchase semiconductor products from our suppliers on a twelve to sixteen week lead-time basis. Consequently, if, as a result of inaccurate forecasts or canceled purchase orders, anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, requiring significant working capital and resulting in severe pressure on our financial condition. Three customers accounted for 15%, 14% and 11% of our total net revenues in fiscal 2002. 

Sales to distributors are typically subject to contractual rights of inventory rotation and price protection. Regardless of particular contractual rights, the failure of one or more distributors or OEMs to achieve sustained sell-through of REALmagic products could result in product returns or delayed or uncollectable receivables, contributing to significant fluctuations in our operating results.

Research and Development 

As of January 31, 2002, we had a staff of 60 research and development personnel. The research and development personnel conduct all of our product development with the assistance of a number of independent contractors and consultants. We are focusing our development efforts primarily on MPEG decoder products, including new and improved versions of REALmagic MPEG chipsets and cost reduction processes.

To achieve and maintain technological leadership, we must continue to make technological advancements in the areas of MPEG video and audio compression and decompression. These advancements include maintaining compatibility with emerging standards and multiple platforms, making improvements to the REALmagic architecture, and developing enhancements to the REALmagic Application Programming Interface (API).

We cannot guarantee that any substantial advances will be made in the REALmagic MPEG technology or, if they are made, that we will be able to market such advancements to achieve profitability. 

During fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, our research and development expenses were $8.1 million, $7.4 million, and $6.4 million, respectively. We plan to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development of future generations of MPEG and other multimedia products. 

Competition

The market for MPEG decoder products is highly competitive. Companies such as Broadcom, ST Microelectronics, and LSI Logic have high profiles in the industry. The possibility exists that other companies with more marketing and financial resources may develop a competitive product that may inhibit the wide acceptance of REALmagic technology. We believe that there are manufacturers who are developing MPEG products that will compete directly with REALmagic products in the near future.

We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market for MPEG decoder products include time to market for new product introductions, product performance, industry standards compatibility, price, and marketing and distribution resources. We believe that we compete most favorably with respect to time to market, product performance and price of our REALmagic products.

Licenses, Patents and Trademarks

We continually seek patent protection for certain software and hardware features in current and future versions of REALmagic. We currently have thirteen pending patent applications for our REALmagic technology. Seventeen patents have been issued to us. We cannot assure you that more patents will be issued or that such patents, even if issued, will provide adequate protection for our competitive position. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through agreements with customers, suppliers and employees and other security measures. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, we cannot assure you that these measures will be successful.

Manufacturing 

To reduce overhead expenses, along with capital and staffing requirements, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to fulfill all of our manufacturing needs, including chipset manufacture and board-level assembly. All of the chips used by us to develop our decoding products are manufactured by outside suppliers and foundries. Each of these suppliers is a sole source of supply to us of the respective chips produced by such supplier.

Our reliance on independent suppliers involves several risks, including the absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Any delay or interruption in the supply of any of the components required for the production of REALmagic products could seriously harm our sales of products and, thus, our operating results.

Backlog

Since our customers typically expect quick deliveries, we seek to ship products within a few weeks of receipt of a purchase order. However, the customer may reschedule delivery of products or cancel the purchase order entirely without significant penalty. Historically, our backlog has not been reflective of future sales. We also expect that in the near term, our backlog will continue to be not indicative of future sales.

Employees

As of January 31, 2002, we had 108 full-time employees, including 60 in research and development, 24 in marketing, sales and support, 7 in operations, and 17 in finance and administration.

Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and management personnel, who are in great demand. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Certain Factors Affecting Business, Operating Results, and Financial Condition

You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.

If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.

We have a history of operating losses and we could sustain future losses. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable and if we continue to lose money, our business may not be financially viable.

We incurred significant operating losses in fiscal 1995, 1996, 1998, 2001 and 2002 and had negative cash flow in fiscal 1995, 1998 and 2002. Since our introduction of the REALmagic MPEG product line in November 1993, we have made significant investments in marketing and technological innovation for our REALmagic products. As a result of our investments, we experienced significant losses through fiscal 1996. Fiscal 1995, 1996 and 1998 also included significant losses associated with products other than those related to our REALmagic technology. Fiscal 2002 and 2001 included significant loss associated with the decline in demand of our REALmagic products. Since our inception through January 31, 2002, our total accumulated deficit is $56,449,000. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our REALmagic products in substantial quantities or generate significant revenues from those sales. We cannot assure you that we will not incur operating losses in any future fiscal quarter or fiscal year. 

If we fail to comply with or obtain waivers for covenants under our loan obligations, our financial condition will be serious harmed.

We have an amended and restated business loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, dated September 7, 2001. Under the agreement we gave two secured promissory notes in total principal amounts of $12.0 million and $6.0 million to Silicon Valley Bank, under which we may borrow as needed. Under the agreement and the notes, we are subject to certain covenants that, among other things, required us to maintain tangible net worth plus subordinated debt of at least $11.5 million as of January 31, 2002 and subsequently amended to $10.5 million. Since July 1997, we have, on occasion, been in violation some of the covenants and in all cases have obtained waivers releasing us from our obligation to meet these covenants as of previous dates. However, it is possible that we may need a waiver for future periods and there are no guarantees that Silicon Valley Bank will grant these waivers. In the instance that we do not meet these covenants, and cannot obtain waivers, the lender could accelerate payments on the notes. Payment of these notes, prior to securing additional financing, could substantially weaken our financial condition and our ability to sustain growth.

Marketing risks and volatility of OEM customer sales and resale distribution may harm our business.

Our ability to increase sales, achieve profitability and maintain REALmagic as an industry digital video decoding standard depends substantially on our ability to achieve a sustained high level of sales to new OEM customers. We have not executed volume purchase agreements with any of our customers. Our customers are not under any obligation to purchase any minimum quantity of our products. We have not achieved bundling agreements with many OEM customers to ensure the success of our REALmagic product line. Also, even if we achieve new design wins, we cannot assure you that these manufacturers will purchase our products in substantial volumes. Sales to any particular OEM customer are subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter and to severe price pressures by competitors. In addition, three of our customers accounted for 15%, 14% and 11% of our total net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2002. Any reductions in those sales could seriously harm our business. Based on our experience in the industry, we expect that our actual sales to OEM customers will experience significant fluctuations. Also, estimates of future sales to any particular customer or groups of customers are inherently uncertain. 

Our ability to achieve profitability also depends on a substantial increase in the sales of REALmagic products through domestic and international distributors for resale through corporate markets. Sales to such distributors are typically subject to contractual rights of inventory rotation or price protection. The failure of distributors to achieve sustained sell- through of REALmagic products could result in product returns or delayed or uncollectable receivables. For example, in fiscal 2001, we recorded sales returns from one of our distributors in the amount of approximately $1.4 million. We also provided for a bad debt allowance in the amount of approximately $2.2 million. Such returns and uncollectable receivables could continue to contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining or maintaining a significant market for our REALmagic products.

Failure to keep pace with technological change will seriously harm our business.

Our success depends, among other things, on our ability to achieve and maintain technological leadership and to remain competitive in terms of price and product performance.

To have technological leadership, we must continue to make technological advancements and research and development investments in the area of MPEG video and audio decoding. These advancements include the following:


compatibility with emerging standards and multiple platforms;

improvements to the REALmagic architecture; and

enhancements to the REALmagic application programming interface.


We cannot assure you that we will be able to make these advancements to our REALmagic technology. If we do make these advances, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve and maintain technological leadership. Any material failure by us or OEMs and software developers to develop or incorporate any required improvement could adversely affect the continued acceptance of our technology and the introduction and sale of future products based on our technology. We cannot assure you that products or technologies developed by others will not render obsolete our technology and the products based on our technology.

To be competitive, we must anticipate the needs of the market and successfully develop and introduce innovative new products in a timely fashion. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design of our new products, have these products manufactured at acceptable manufacturing yields, or obtain significant purchase orders for these products. The introduction of new products may adversely affect sales of existing products and contribute to fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Our introduction of new products also requires that we carefully manage our inventory to avoid inventory surplus and obsolescence. During fiscal 2002 and 2001, we wrote down our inventory in the amount of approximately $1.4 million and $1.9 million respectively, because of a continuing decline in demand for certain of our PC-related products. In addition, new products, as opposed to more mature products, typically have higher initial component costs. This higher cost could result in downward pressures on our gross margins.

Our industry is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will not be financially viable.

The market for multimedia products is highly competitive and is also influenced by embedded processors provided by multiple companies. Processors have, in recent years, included increased graphics functionality. Other companies with more experience and financial resources may develop a competitive product that could inhibit future growth of our REALmagic technology. Increased competition may be generated from several major computer product manufacturers that have developed products and technologies that could compete directly with REALmagic products. These competitors include:


STMicroelectronics;

Equator Technologies;

Zoran Corporation;

LSI Logic/C-Cube;

ESS Technology;

Broadcom;

Cirrus Logic;

TriMedia Technologies.


In addition, Intel computer CPU chips processors have become more powerful, such that video decoding could be done in software. Most of our competitors have substantial experience and expertise in audio, video and multimedia technology and in producing and selling consumer products through retail distribution and OEM channels. These companies also have substantially greater engineering, marketing and financial resources than we have. Our competitors could form cooperative relationships that could present formidable competition to us. We cannot assure you that our REALmagic technology will achieve commercial success or that it will compete effectively against other interactive multimedia products, services and technologies that currently exist, are under development, or may be announced by competitors.

Our future revenue growth depends in large part on the adoption of MPEG technology

MPEG LA, LLC provides licensing terms and administers royalty payments for use of patented technology associated with the use of MPEG standards. Terms of use of MPEG-2 patents have been in place for a number of years. Terms for use of MPEG-4 patents are still awaiting finalization, though proposed MPEG-4 royalties associated with shipments of decoders are consistent with that of MPEG-2. Run-time fees for MPEG-4 use in streaming and broadcast are still under consideration, which represent some risk to Sigma. Our business strategy is, and has been, to focus on REALmagic products by investing heavily in MPEG technology. If these fees are minor, as expected, the deployment of MPEG-4 will continue unabated. If these fees become substantive in nature, it may result in decreased adoption, which will negatively affect our revenue expectations from products incorporating this feature. In addition, there are MPEG-4 alternatives being pushed by companies such as Microsoft and RealNetworks that could compete with MPEG-4 for market share negatively affecting our revenue expectations. 

Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors and any of these factors could adversely affect our stock price.

Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. This fluctuation is due to a number of factors, including the following and others:



our new product introductions and product introductions by our competitors;

market acceptance of our products by OEMs, software developers and end users;

the success of our promotional programs;

gains or losses of our significant customers;

shifts in demand for technology embodied in our products;

reductions in selling prices;

inventory obsolescence;

write-downs of accounts receivable;

an interrupted or inadequate supply of semiconductor chips;

our ability to protect our intellectual property;

loss of our key personnel;

technical problems causing shipping delays; 

availability of third-party manufacturing capacity; and

the effect of the terrorist attacks in the United States and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide.


In addition, sales to OEM customers are subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. This variability depends on OEMs' timing and release of products that incorporate our REALmagic technology, experience with sales of these products and inventory levels.

The market for consumer electronics products is characterized by significant seasonal swings in demand. Demand typically peaks in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. We expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the sales of REALmagic products in the future. The demand for our products will depend in part on the success of digital video technology. In light of this, our revenues may vary with the availability of and demand for DVD titles. This demand may increase or decrease as a result of a number of factors that cannot be predicted, such as consumer preferences and product announcements by competitors.

Announcements of directly competing products will likely have a negative effect on our operating results. Based on our experience, we believe that a substantial portion of our shipments will occur in the third month of a quarter, with significant shipments completed in the latter part of the third month. This shipment pattern causes our operating results to be difficult to predict. Currently, we place orders to purchase semiconductor products from our foundries with a long lead-time. If, as a result of inaccurate forecasts or cancelled purchase orders, our anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, our inventory levels could be disproportionately high. This would require significant working capital and harm our operating results.

We face many risks because of our heavy reliance on certain manufacturers and suppliers that could harm our business and financial condition.

Our REALmagic products and components are presently manufactured by outside suppliers or foundries. We do not have long-term contracts with these suppliers. We conduct business with our suppliers on a written purchase order basis. Our reliance on independent suppliers subjects us to several risks. These risks include:


the absence of adequate capacity;

the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to, certain process technologies; and

reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs.


We obtain some of our components from a single source. In fiscal 2000 we experienced a delay and interruption from our source due to the earthquake in Taiwan in October 1999. We estimate that this event resulted in lost sales of about $2.5 million. Other delays or interruptions have not occurred to date, but any delay or interruption in the supply of any of the components required for the production of our REALmagic silicon or our REALmagic multimedia cards currently obtained from a single source could have a material adverse impact on our sales of REALmagic products, and on our business.

We must provide our suppliers with sufficient lead-time to meet our forecasted manufacturing objectives. Any failure to properly forecast such quantities could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce REALmagic products in sufficient quantities. We cannot assure you that our forecasts regarding new product demand will be accurate, particularly because we sell our REALmagic products on a purchase order basis. Manufacturing REALmagic chipsets is a complex process, and we may experience short-term difficulties in obtaining timely deliveries. This could affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. Any such delay in delivering products in the future could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Also, should any of our major suppliers become unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture our key components in required volumes, we will have to identify and qualify acceptable additional suppliers. This qualification process could take up to three months or longer and additional sources of supply may not be in a position to satisfy our requirements on a timely basis.

In the past, we have experienced production delays and other difficulties, and we could experience similar problems in the future. In addition, product defects may occur and they may escape identification at the factory. This could result in unanticipated costs, cancellations, deferrals of purchase orders, or costly recall of products from customer sites.

Loss of key personnel could cause our business to suffer.

Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, marketing, sales and management personnel. Given the complexity of REALmagic technology, we are dependent on our ability to retain and motivate highly skilled engineers involved in the ongoing hardware and software development of REALmagic products. These engineers are required to refine the existing hardware system and application programming interface and to introduce enhancements in future applications. The multimedia PC industry is characterized by high employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. Despite incentives we provide, our current employees may not continue to work for us, and if additional personnel were required for our operations, we may not able to obtain the services of additional personnel necessary for our growth. 

We face risks related to intellectual property rights.

Our ability to compete may be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information. We currently hold seventeen patents covering the technology underlying the REALmagic products. We have filed certain patent applications and are in the process of preparing others. We cannot assure that any additional patents for which we have applied will be issued or that any issued patents will provide meaningful protection of our product innovations. Like other emerging multimedia companies, we rely primarily on trade secrets and technological know-how in the conduct of our business. We also rely, in part, on copyright law to protect our proprietary rights with respect to our REALmagic technology. We use measures such as confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. These methods of protecting our intellectual property may not be sufficient.

The electronics industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation, and we may not be successful in such development or in obtaining such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, patent disputes in the electronics industry have often been settled through cross-licensing arrangements. Because we do not yet have a large portfolio of issued patents, we may not be able to settle an alleged patent infringement claim through a cross-licensing arrangement.

Our international operations are subject to certain risks.

During fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, sales to international customers accounted for approximately 42%, 65%, and 67% of our total net revenues, respectively. We anticipate that sales to international customers, including sales of REALmagic products, will continue to account for a substantial percentage of our net revenues. Also, some of the foundries that manufacture our products and components are located in Asia. Overseas sales and purchases to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars.

Due to the concentration of international sales and the manufacturing capacity in Asia, we are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally. These risks include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and fluctuations in the U.S. dollar that could increase the sales price in local currencies of our products in international markets, or make it difficult for us to obtain price reductions from our foundries. We do not currently engage in any hedging activities to reduce our exposure to exchange rate risks. If and when we engage in transactions in foreign currencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations.

We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales to the Asia Pacific region. This region of the world has recently been subject to increased levels of economic instability, and this instability could seriously harm our results of operations.

Our stock price may be volatile.

The market of our common stock has been subject to significant volatility. This volatility is expected to continue. The following factors, among others, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock:


our announcement of the introduction of new products;

our competitors' announcements of the introduction of new products; and

market conditions in the technology, entertainment and emerging growth company sectors.


The stock market has experienced, and is currently experiencing, volatility that particularly affects the market prices of equity securities of many high technology and development stage companies, such as those in the electronics industry. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, could decrease the price of our common stock.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

Our executive officers and directors and their ages as of April 1, 2002 are as follows:


           Name            Age                    Position
-------------------------- ---- ---------------------------------------------
Thinh Q. Tran               48  Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief
                                Executive Officer
Silvio Perich               53  Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales
Jacques Martinella          46  Vice President, Engineering
Kenneth Lowe                46  Vice President, Business Development
Kit Tsui                    52  Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary
William J. Almon(1)(2)      69  Director
William Wang(1)(2)          38  Director
Julien Nguyen(1)            45  Director
______________


(1) Member of the Audit Committee
(2) Member of the Compensation Committee

Mr. Tran, a founder of Sigma, has served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Directors since February 1982. Prior to joining Sigma, Mr. Tran was employed by Amdahl Corporation and Trilogy Systems Corporation, both of which were involved in the IBM-compatible mainframe computer market.

Mr. Perich joined Sigma in September 1985 as Director, Sales. In September 1992, Mr. Perich became Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales. Mr. Perich was a co-founder of Costar Incorporated, a manufacturers' representative organization for high technology products, where he served as partner from October 1979 to September 1985. From September 1972 until September 1979, Mr. Perich served in several sales management roles at Siliconix Inc, a specialty semiconductor manufacturer.

Mr. Martinella joined Sigma in May 1994 as Director, VLSI Engineering. In December 1995, Mr. Martinella became Vice President, Engineering. From June 1990 to April 1994, Mr. Martinella served in engineering and management positions at Weitek, a microchip manufacturer. In addition, Mr. Martinella was an engineer at National Semiconductor, a semiconductor manufacturer, from June 1982 to June 1990.

Mr. Lowe joined Sigma in May 2000 as Vice President, Marketing. In December 2000, Mr. Lowe became Vice President, Business Development. Prior to joining Sigma, Mr. Lowe served as the Director of Multimedia Marketing for Cadence Design Systems. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Lowe served as the Vice President of Marketing for Chrontel. Prior to 1996, Mr. Lowe held various marketing management positions Sierra Semiconductor, Datquest, Personal CAD Systems, Performix and Gould-Biomation. In the late 1980's, Mr. Lowe served as Product Marketing Director of Sigma.

Ms. Tsui joined Sigma in November 1982 as its Accounting Manager. Ms. Tsui was promoted to Director of Finance in February 1990, acting Chief Financial Officer and Secretary in December 1996, Chief Accounting Officer in January 2000 and Chief Financial Officer in January 2001.

Mr. Almon has served as a Director of Sigma since April 1994. Mr. Almon also serves as a Director of Read-Rite Corporation, and Exabyte Corporation. Mr. Almon is currently Managing Director of Finaline Technology, a business software company. Prior to that Mr. Almon was Managing Director of Netfish Technology from 1999 to May 2001 when it was acquired by Iona Technologies PLC. He was Chairman of the Board of InterNet Image, an internet software company that was merged with Intraware Inc. in October 1999. In May 1994, Mr. Almon founded and served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of StorMedia, Inc., a manufacturer of thin film disks. From December 1989 until February 1993, Mr. Almon served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Conner Peripherals, Inc., a manufacturer of computer disk drives and storage management devices. Prior to 1987, Mr. Almon spent 30 years with IBM Corporation, holding executive positions in both software and hardware management, most recently as Vice President, Low End Storage Products.

Mr. Wang became a Director of Sigma in October 1995. From January 1995 to the present, Mr. Wang has served as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Princeton Graphic Systems, a supplier of computer monitors, and has served since January 1996 as a Director of Diva Labs. From 1990 to April 1997, Mr. Wang served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of MAG Innovision Co., Inc., a supplier of computer monitors. From 1986 until 1990, Mr. Wang worked at Tatung Company of America in the Video Display Division

Mr. Nguyen became a Director of Sigma in May 2000. Mr. Nguyen is Managing Partner of Applied Materials Ventures, a corporate venture fund. Mr. Nguyen co-founded and was the Chairman of ezlogin, a developer of personalization infrastructure tools for internet sites and wireless carriers. Prior to ezlogin, Mr. Nguyen founded Novita Communications, and served as its Chief Executive Officer. Novita developed Java-based communications software and services. In 1998, Novita was acquired by PlanetWeb. From February 1995 to October 1996, Mr. Nguyen served as Co-Chairman and Chief Technical Officer of the Company. From August 1993 until January 1995, he served as Vice President, Engineering and Chief Technical Officer of the Company. From May 1992 until October 1993, Mr. Nguyen was President and Chief Executive of E-Motions, which was acquired by the Company in 1993. Prior to founding E-Motions, Mr. Nguyen worked at Radius Inc. as Director of Product Development and was in charge of all product development for five years. Mr. Nguyen also serves as an observer on the boards of Zepton Networks, Siros Technologies, GlimmerGlass Networks.
