ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

                                    BUSINESS

General

We are a leading supplier of analog and mixed-signal semiconductors. We design,
produce and market a broad range of products that are sold principally to
customers in the computer, communications and industrial markets. Our products
are designed into a wide variety of end applications, including notebook and
desktop computers, computer gaming systems, personal digital assistants (PDAs),
cellular phones, wireline networks, wireless base stations and test systems. Our
end customers are primarily original equipment manufacturers and their
suppliers, including Acer, Agilent, Cisco, Compaq, Dell, First International,
IBM, Intel, Microstar, Motorola, Samsung and Sony.

Overview of the Semiconductor Industry

The semiconductor industry is broadly divided into analog and digital
semiconductor products. Analog semiconductors condition and regulate "real
world" functions such as temperature, speed, sound and electrical current.
Digital semiconductors process binary information, such as that used by
computers. Mixed-signal devices incorporate both analog and digital functions
into a single chip and provide the ability for digital electronics to interface
with the outside world.

The market for analog and mixed-signal semiconductors differs from the market
for digital semiconductors. The analog and mixed-signal industry is
characterized by significantly longer product life cycles than the digital
industry. In addition, analog semiconductor manufacturers tend to have lower
capital investment requirements for manufacturing because their facilities tend
to be less dependent than digital producers on state-of-the-art production
equipment. The end-product markets for analog and mixed-signal semiconductors
are smaller, more varied and more specialized than the relatively standardized
digital semiconductor product markets.

Another difference between the analog and digital markets is the amount of
available talented labor. The analog industry relies more heavily than the
digital industry on design and applications talent to distinguish its products
from one another. While digital expertise is extensively taught in universities
due to its overall market size, analog and mixed-signal expertise tends to be
learned over time based on experience and hands-on training. Consequently,
personnel with this training are scarce, a fact that makes it difficult for new
suppliers to quickly gain significant market share.

The markets for computer and communications products today are characterized by
several trends that we believe are driving demand for our products. Electronic
systems are being designed to operate at increasingly lower operating voltages,
battery-powered devices such as handheld computers and cellular telephones are
proliferating, and devices are becoming smaller and requiring higher levels of
integration. We have designed our products to address these needs by providing
solutions that extend battery life, meet tighter voltage requirements, improve
the human interface of systems, and support higher transmission and processor
speeds. As communications functions are increasingly integrated into a range of
systems and devices, these products require analog processing capabilities and
the number

                                       2
<PAGE>

and size of our end markets grows. Advancements in digital processing technology
typically drive the need for corresponding advancements in analog and mixed-
signal solutions. We believe that the diversity of our applications allows us to
take advantage of areas of relative market strength and limits our vulnerability
to competitive pressure in any one area.

Semtech End Markets

A majority of our products are sold to customers in the computer, communications
and industrial markets. Until seven years ago, we had largely been focused on
serving the military and aerospace market. We used the computer market as our
first major entry into the commercial marketplace for our circuits. Four years
ago, approximately half of our revenues were derived from computer related
applications. In recent years, we have seen relative growth from the
communications and industrial markets as a percentage of the total. For the
fiscal year ended January 27, 2002, our revenues from the computer,
communications and industrial markets were 40%, 32% and 25%, respectively. The
remaining balance of 3% was made up of various other end-markets, including
military and aerospace.

Computer market applications include notebook and desktop computers, computer
gaming systems, and PDAs. End-product applications for our products within the
communication market include local area networks, wide area networks, cellular
phones and base-stations. Industrial applications include automated test
equipment (ATE), medical devices and factory automation systems. We believe that
our diversity in the end markets provides stability to our business and
opportunity for continuing growth.

The following table depicts our main product lines and their end-product
applications:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Semtech's Main                             Specific End-Product Applications
   Product Lines
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     Computer                Communications               Industrial
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                          <C>                        <C>                          <C>
Power Management               Desktop PCs, servers,    Cellular phones, network        Power supplies,
                              workstations, notebook    cards, routers and hubs,      industrial systems
                             computers, add-on cards,    telecom network boards
                               PDAs, computer gaming
                                      systems
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Protection                    Notebook computers, USB     Cellular phones, base     Handled measurement or
                                 ports, LAN cards       stations, DSL equipment,    instrumentation devices
                                                            routers and hubs
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
High Performance                   Workstations          Cellular base stations,   Automated test equipment
                                                         routers and hubs, SONET
                                                                networks
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Advanced Communications                                 SONET networks, routers,
                                                          hubs, switches, fiber
                                                                 modems
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Human Input and System       Notebook computers, PDAs     Cellular phones, web       Touch screen systems
Management                                                       phones
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Business Strategy

Our objective is to be the leading supplier of analog and mixed-signal devices
to the fastest growing segments of our target markets, particularly within the
computer, communications and industrial segments. We intend to leverage our pool
of skilled technical personnel to develop new products, or, where appropriate,
use acquisitions, to serve the fastest growing segments of these markets. In
order to capitalize on our strengths in analog and mixed-signal processing
design, developing and marketing, we intend to pursue the following strategies:

             Maintain our leading analog design expertise

We have developed a strategy to invest heavily in human resources needed to
define and market high-performance products. We have been able to add to our
engineering design talent through acquisitions. In general, our staff engineers
have work experience in the analog and the mixed-signal industry ranging from 10
to 15 years. We have built a team of experienced engineers who combine industry
expertise with advanced semiconductor design expertise to

                                       3
<PAGE>

meet customer requirements and enable our customers to get their products to
market rapidly. We intend to leverage this strategy to achieve new levels of
integration, power reduction and miniaturization, enabling our customers to
achieve leading performance in their products.

         Leverage outsourced semiconductor fabrication capacity

We have increasingly outsourced a large portion of our production and
manufacturing in order to focus more of our resources on defining, developing
and selling our products. We use outside wafer foundries that are based in Asia,
the United States and Europe. Our largest wafer source is a foundry based in
China. We believe that outsourcing provides us numerous benefits including
capital efficiency, the flexibility to adopt and leverage emerging process
technologies without significant investment risk and a more variable cost of
goods which provides us with greater operating flexibility.

         Focus on fast-growing market segments

We have chosen to target the analog segments of the fastest growing end markets.
We intend to enhance this growth potential by focusing on specific products
within the analog and mixed-signal market, including high-end personal
computers, notebook computers, PDAs, cellular phones, wide area and local area
networks and test systems. These products are characterized by their need for
leading-edge, high-performance, analog and mixed-signal semiconductor
technology.

         Continue to release unique new products and achieve new design wins

We are focused on developing unique new high-margin products to serve our target
markets. These markets have experienced growing consumer demand for increased
product performance at competitive price points. We also focus on achieving
design wins for our products with current and future customers. Design wins are
indications by the customers that they intend to incorporate our products into
new designs. Our technical talent works closely with our customers in securing
design wins, developing new products and in implementing and integrating our
products into their systems. Over the past five years, the number of our pool of
skilled technical personnel has grown from less than 75 to more than 300, and
the number of new product families introduced in the past five years has
increased from 28 to 123. We believe that our rate of new product introductions
and number of skilled technical personnel are indicators of our ability to meet
our target markets' evolving needs.

         Diversify into new markets

We intend to enter new markets that complement our existing operations through
internal development of new products and by strategic acquisitions. Our focus
during calendar year 2001 was to expand our presence within the broad markets of
portable devices, computer gaming systems and communications infrastructure. A
large amount of design and marketing talent was focused on developing products
for these markets. We believe strategic acquisitions will allow us to expand our
pool of skilled technical personnel as well as expand the range of complementary
products that we offer. We have acquired four companies over the past six years
that have permitted us to successfully enter new market segments and develop new
products.

         Concentrate on cross-selling our products and services

We consider the ability to sell additional products and services to our existing
customers as a major opportunity. Many of our large customers produce a wide
variety of end products that require analog and mixed-signal products. By
leveraging existing relationships, we believe that we will be able to sell a
wider variety of our products to these organizations. In addition, we believe
the high level of our technical expertise in our marketing department permits it
to identify and capitalize on cross-selling opportunities.

Product Segments

The following is a description of our main product segments:

Standard Semiconductor Products. Included in Standard Semiconductor Products are
integrated circuits (ICs) and discrete components designed for use in standard
industry applications. Standard Semiconductor Products represented approximately
92% of our overall net sales for fiscal year 2002. The main product lines within
our Standard Semiconductor Products are described below.

         .     Power Management Circuits. Power management circuits control,
               alter, regulate and condition the electrical pulses that flow
               through electronics. The highest volume product types within the
               power management product line are linear regulators, switching
               voltage regulators, combination regulators, smart regulators and
               charge pumps. The primary application for these products is power
               regulation for computer and communications systems.

                                       4
<PAGE>

         .     Protection Products. The highest volume type of protection
               products we design and market are transient voltage suppressors
               (TVS). TVS devices provide protection for electronic systems
               where large voltage spikes (called transients), such as
               electrostatic discharge generated by the human body, can
               permanently damage voltage-sensitive components. We also have
               developed filter and termination devices that can be sold as a
               complement to TVS devices. Specific protection product
               applications are found in computer, data-communications,
               telecommunications and industrial markets.

         .     High Performance Circuits. We design and market a wide variety of
               high performance products, namely pin electronics, timing, clock
               distribution, parametric measurement, and ECL clock/lock products
               for use in ATE, workstations and communication infrastructure
               equipment.

         .     Advanced Communication Circuits. Through internal investment and
               several acquisitions, we have developed a line of highly
               proprietary advanced communication ICs which perform specialized
               timing and synchronization functions in high-speed networks.
               Advanced communication ICs are used in metropolitan, wide area,
               and wireless networks.

         .     Human Input Devices (HID) and System Management. We offer a line
               of human input and system management devices that include touch-
               screen and touch-pad controllers, pointing stick devices and
               battery management circuits. These products are designed to
               handle human input and battery function in portable systems, such
               as notebook computers, PDAs and cellular phones.

Rectifier and Assembly Products. Rectifiers and assemblies are older-technology
products that are principally sold into the military and aerospace markets.

         .     Rectifiers. We have several different categories of silicon
               rectifiers, which are primarily used to convert alternating
               current to direct current. These products are sold to military,
               aerospace and medical equipment customers.

         .     Assemblies. An assembly is a package of rectifiers of one or more
               types encased in epoxy or silicon by various molding techniques,
               constituting one or more basic rectifier circuits. Assemblies are
               used for military, aerospace and other specialized applications.

Other Products. We produce and sell other products that are not part of our two
main product segments. Included in the other products segment are custom and
application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and wafer foundry services for
other semiconductor manufacturers.

For further financial information on these segments, refer to the information
contained in Note 16, "Business Segments and Concentrations of Risk", in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

Intellectual Capital and Product Development

We believe that our emphasis on the development of our intellectual capital and
introduction of new proprietary product designs are key to our success.
Recruiting and retaining technical talent is the foundation for developing and
selling new products into the marketplace. In the past, we have added
experienced engineers through the acquisitions of companies. We have recruited
additional talent through our strategy of establishing multiple design center
locations throughout the United States and the world.

Circuit design engineers are our most valuable engineers. Circuit designers
perform the critical task of designing and laying out integrated circuits. As of
January 27, 2002, we employed approximately 85 circuit designers. A majority of
these individuals have senior-level expertise in the design and development of
circuits targeted for use in power management, protection, high performance and
communication applications. We intend to make further investments in research
and development in the future, including increasing our employee headcount,
investing in design and development equipment and supporting our development
efforts overall.

We have dedicated design centers in Santa Clara, California; Raleigh, North
Carolina; Austin, Texas; Oxnard, California; Glasgow, Scotland; and Southampton,
England. In addition, dedicated high performance circuit design occurs at our
San Diego location, and human input and system management design and protection
product design occurs at our Camarillo, California, headquarters.

Sales and Marketing

Sales made directly to original equipment manufacturers during fiscal year 2002
were approximately 70% of net sales. The remaining 30% of net sales were made
through independent distributors. We have direct sales offices located in

                                       5
<PAGE>

California, Texas and Connecticut which manage the sales activities of
independent sales representative firms and independent distributors within the
United States and Canada. We also have sales offices in France, Germany and
Scotland, as well as independent sales representative firms and independent
distributors to serve the European markets. We maintain branch sale offices in
Taipei, Taiwan; Seoul, Korea; and Tokyo, Japan; along with independent
representatives and distributors for serving the Asia-Pacific territory. We are
also represented outside the United States, Europe and Asia by other independent
sales organizations.

Customers and Sales Data

For fiscal year 2002, more than 1,000 customers purchased our products either
directly from us or through our authorized distributors. The following is a
representative sample of our customers by end markets:

Representative Customers by End Markets

          ------------------------------------------------------
             Computer         Communications       Industrial
          ------------------------------------------------------
              Compaq              Cisco          Agilent Tech.
               Dell              Motorola             LTX
               IBM                Nortel            Siemens
              Intel              Samsung           Teradyne
            Microsoft              Sony             Unisys
          ------------------------------------------------------

Our customers include major computer and peripheral manufacturers and their
subcontractors, ATE manufacturers, data communications and telecommunications
equipment vendors, and a variety of large and small companies serving the
industrial, automotive, aerospace and military markets.

During fiscal years 2002, 2001 and 2000, foreign sales constituted 62%, 58% and
64%, respectively, of our net sales. Approximately three-fourths of foreign
sales are to customers located in the Asia-Pacific region. The remaining foreign
sales are to customers in Europe.

For the fiscal year 2002 and fiscal year 2001, Agilent Technologies, one of our
ATE end customers, and its subcontractors, accounted for approximately 13% and
14%, respectively, of net sales. For fiscal year 2002, one of our Asian
distributors accounted for approximately 12% of net sales.

Manufacturing Capabilities

As part of our business strategy, we outsource a majority of our manufacturing
functions to third party contractors that fabricate silicon wafers and package
and test our products. On April 23, 2001, we sold our Santa Clara, California
wafer fabrication facility. We have one remaining wafer fabrication facility
that is located in Corpus Christi, Texas. We perform a very limited amount of
test and probe activities in our Camarillo and San Diego, California facilities.
Our Reynosa, Mexico facility performs most of the packaging activity needed to
support our rectifier and assembly product line. In fiscal year 2002, we
purchased wafers from nine different third party wafer foundries and utilized
more than 20 different manufacturing processes, including various Bipolar,
high-speed Bipolar, CMOS, and Bi-CMOS processes. Our Corpus Christi wafer
fabrication facility employs a variety of unique Bipolar processes.

On January 29, 2002, we announced plans to obtain 100% of our silicon wafers
from outside sources by the end of calendar year 2002. As part of this plan, we
expect to close our last remaining wafer fab facility located in Corpus Christi,
Texas sometime during the coming year. The closure of the Corpus Christi wafer
fab is the final step in the previously announced strategy to only source wafers
from outside foundries. We will continue to do process development with our nine
outside foundries from which we currently purchase wafers. We do not expect any
significant financial impact as a result of the planned closure of the Corpus
Christi wafer fab.

For fiscal year 2002, we supported approximately 26% of our end products with
wafers that were fabricated internally. The remaining 74% of our end products
were supported with finished silicon wafers purchased from outside wafer
foundries. Only our protection and rectifier and assembly product lines are
supported by internal wafer production. All of our products, with the exception
of the rectifier and assembly product lines, are packaged and tested by outside
subcontractors.

Unlike digital products, our products are less reliant on state-of-the-art
manufacturing and more on design and applications support. As a result, our
Corpus Christi wafer fabrication facility and our outside wafer foundries tend
to be significantly less costly than state-of-the-art digital fabrication
facilities and likewise utilize equipment that is less subject to obsolescence.

                                       6
<PAGE>

We use outside wafer foundries that are based in Asia, the United States and
Europe. Our largest wafer source is a foundry based in China. In fiscal year
2002, this foundry based in Mainland China provided 28% our total silicon
requirements. We expect that the percentage sourced from this Mainland China
foundry will increase in fiscal year 2003. As a percentage of the total, the
amount of silicon sourced from outside foundries will also increase in fiscal
year 2003 in order to utilize the best available technology, leverage the
capital investment of others and reduce our operating costs associated with
manufacturing assets and increase the variable component of our cost of goods
sold.

Our products are made from basic materials (principally silicon, metals and
plastics), all of which are widely available from a number of suppliers.

Competition

The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive and we
expect competitive pressures to continue. Our ability to compete effectively and
to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit
applications and design talent, our ability to introduce new products and the
rate at which we introduce these new products to offset the generally short
product life cycles. Our industry is characterized by decreasing unit selling
prices over the life of a product. We believe we compete effectively based upon
our ability to capitalize on efficiencies and economies of scale in production
and sales, and our ability to maintain or improve our productivity and product
yields to reduce manufacturing costs.

We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our
product lines, with at least 30 manufacturers of such products, of varying size
and financial strength. A number of these competitors are dependent on
semiconductor products as their principal source of income, and some are much
larger than we are. The number of our competitors has grown due to expansion of
the market segments in which we participate. We consider our primary competitors
to include Texas Instruments, National Semiconductor, Linear Technology, Maxim
Integrated Products, Fairchild Semiconductor and Intersil Semiconductor, all
with respect to our power management products; ST Microelectronics N.V. and
Microsemi with respect to our protection products; Analog Devices, Maxim
Integrated Products, ON Semiconductors and Micrel Semiconductor, all with
respect to our high performance products; Silicon Laboratories and Zarlink
Semiconductor with respect to our advanced communications products; and Philips
Semiconductors and Synaptics Inc. with respect to our HID products.

Intellectual Property and Licenses

Our business is highly reliant on the design talents, technical abilities,
applications knowledge, and creativity of our employees. During fiscal year 2002
we focused on more fully protecting our intellectual property by filing an
increased number of patent applications, trademark applications, and copyright
registrations. We consider these actions to be helpful in maintaining a
competitive advantage, but do not believe that patents and other intellectual
property rights create definitive competitive barriers to entry.

At this time, we do not license our patents or products. We do, however, license
certain technology from others. We do not consider any of the licensed
technology to be material in terms of royalties payable and we believe the
duration and other terms of the licenses are appropriate for our needs.

Environmental Matters

On February 7, 2000, we were notified by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) with respect to the Casmalia Disposal Site in Santa
Barbara, California. We have been included in the Superfund program to clean up
this disposal site as a result of our involvement in utilizing this site for
waste disposal. We have conditionally accepted a settlement offer from the EPA
under which we would be required to pay approximately $765,000 with respect to
the wastes at the Casmalia Disposal Site attributable to us. The settlement
offer is contingent upon our securing a release from further liability,
including a release from the federal natural resource trustees. We have recorded
the proposed settlement amount as an accrued liability.

On June 22, 2001, we were notified by the California Department of Toxic
Substances Control that we may have liability associated with the clean up of
the one-third acre Davis Chemical Company site in Los Angeles, California. We
have been included in the clean-up program because we are one of the companies
that are believed to have used the Davis Chemical Company site for waste
recycling and/or disposal between 1949 and 1990. Investigation into this matter
is in its early stages. At this time there is not a specific proposal or budget
with respect to the clean-up of the site. Thus, no reserve has been established
for this matter.

                                       7
<PAGE>

We use an environmental firm, specializing in hydrogeology, to perform periodic
monitoring of the groundwater at our leased facility in Newbury Park,
California. Certain contaminants have been found in the groundwater. Monitoring
results over a number of years indicate that contaminants are coming from
adjacent facilities. Although it is currently not possible to determine the
ultimate amount of our possible future clean-up costs, if any, we do not believe
we would be materially adversely impacted by this condition. Accordingly, no
reserve for clean-up has been provided at this time.

Employees

As of January 27, 2002, we had 577 full-time employees. There were 124 employees
in research and development, 96 in sales, marketing and field services and 59 in
general, administrative and finance. The remaining 298 employees support
manufacturing, distribution and quality functions. We have never had a work
stoppage, and our domestic and European employees are not unionized. Our Mexican
operation has unionized employees. Our employee relations have been, and are,
satisfactory. Competition for key design and application engineers is
significant.

During fiscal year 2002, we did reduce headcount in several areas. The largest
area of headcount reductions was in manufacturing functions as a result of the
sale of our Santa Clara fab, lower production levels and the consolidation of
manufacturing activity associated with our rectifier and assembly product
segment into our Mexico facility. Reductions in headcount in other technical and
administrative areas were in response to weak industry conditions.

Government Regulations

We are required to comply with numerous government regulations that are normal
and customary to manufacturing businesses that operate in our markets and
operating locations. Our sales that serve the military and aerospace markets
primarily consist of products which have been qualified to be sold in these
markets by the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD). These products mainly consist
of discrete rectifiers and rectifier assemblies. In order to maintain these
qualifications, we must comply with certain specifications promulgated by the
DOD. As part of maintaining these qualifications, we are routinely audited by
DOD personnel. Based on current specifications, we believe we can maintain our
qualifications for the foreseeable future. However, these specifications may be
modified by the DOD in the future which may make the manufacturing of these
products more difficult and thus could adversely impact our profitability in
those product lines.

                                  RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Form
10-K, including the risk factors listed below. The risks described below are not
the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not now known to us or that
we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.

If any of these risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed.
If our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline.

This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated
in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including
the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We
undertake no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date
of this Form 10-K.

Economic decline may have adverse consequences for our business

We sell our products to several commercial markets, computers, communications
and industrial markets, whose performance is tied to the overall economy. Many
of these industries have been impacted in the calendar year 2001 due to an
economic slowdown in the United States. If the economic conditions in the United
States continue or worsen or if wider or global slowdowns occur, the demand for
our products may be reduced. In addition, these economic slowdowns may also
affect our customers' ability to pay for our products. Accordingly, these
economic slowdowns may harm our business.

The cyclical nature of the electronics and semiconductor industries may limit
our ability to maintain or increase revenue and profit levels during industry
downturns

                                       8
<PAGE>

The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant
downturns, which are characterized by reduced product demand, production
overcapacity, increased levels of inventory, industry-wide fluctuations in the
demand for semiconductors and an erosion in average prices. The occurrence of
these conditions has adversely affected our business in the past. During the
calendar years 1999 and 2000, high consumption levels by electronics
manufacturers was a major driver of demand for semiconductors, including the
products we sell. However, calendar year 2001 was a year of decline for the
overall semiconductor and electronics industries and, consequently, our business
suffered. Past downturns in the semiconductor industry have resulted in a sudden
impact on the semiconductor and capital equipment markets. Consequently, a
continuation of the current downturn and any future downturns in the
semiconductor industry may harm our business. In addition, the semiconductor
manufacturing industry is currently experiencing conditions of manufacturing
overcapacity. If these conditions persist, they could lead to excess production
in the industry and result in an underutilization of our internal manufacturing
capacity and a decrease in the prices of our products.

Fluctuations and seasonality in the personal computer industry and economic
downturns in our end-markets may have adverse consequences for our business

Many of our products are used in personal computers and related peripherals. For
the fiscal year ended January 27, 2002, approximately 40% of our sales are used
in computer applications. Industry-wide fluctuations in demand for desktop
personal computers have in the past, and may in the future, harm our business.
In addition, our past results have reflected some seasonality, with demand
levels being higher in computer segments during the third and fourth quarters of
the year in comparison to the first and second quarters.

A decline in any of our end markets, particularly the consumer computer industry
and the automated test equipment (ATE) market, could also harm our business. For
the fiscal year ended January 27, 2002, shipment of our products to the ATE
customers represented approximately 21% of our net sales. Consequently, a
downturn in the ATE market may adversely affect our business.

We obtain certain essential components and materials and certain manufacturing
services from a limited number of suppliers and subcontractors, including
foreign-based entities

Our reliance on a limited number of outside subcontractors and suppliers for
silicon wafers, packaging and certain other processes involves several risks,
including potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required
components and reduced control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and
quality of components. These risks may be attributable to several factors
including limitation on resources, labor problems, equipment failures or the
occurrence of natural disasters. There can be no assurance that problems will
not occur in the future with suppliers or subcontractors. Disruption or
termination of our supply sources or subcontractors could significantly delay
our shipments and harm our business. Delays could also damage relationships with
current and prospective customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain timely
deliveries or quality manufacturing or any other circumstances that would
require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture or package
certain components internally could limit our growth and harm on our business.

Several of our outside subcontractors and suppliers, including third-party
foundries that supply silicon wafers, are located in foreign countries,
including China, Malaysia, the Philippines and Germany. For fiscal year 2002,
approximately 28% of our silicon was supplied by a third-party foundry in China,
and this percentage is expected to be even higher in fiscal year 2003. Our
international business activities, in general, are subject to a variety of
potential risks resulting from certain political and economic uncertainties. Any
political turmoil or trade restrictions in these countries, particularly China,
could limit our ability to obtain goods and services from these suppliers and
subcontractors. The effect of an economic crisis or a political turmoil on our
suppliers located in these countries may impact our ability to meet the demands
of our customers. If we find it necessary to transition the goods and services
received from our existing suppliers or subcontractors to other firms, we would
likely experience an increase in production costs and a delay in production
associated with such a transition, both of which could have a significant
negative effect on our operating results, as these risks are substantially
uninsured.

Reductions in communications infrastructure investments could adversely affect
our business

The overall semiconductor industry, and our business in particular, has
benefited from the build-out of voice, data, and mobile networks and the related
demand for communications infrastructure equipment that supports higher-speed
(higher bandwidth) networks. The electronics needed to support this trend within
the communications market rely heavily on companies such as ours to develop the
circuits used in these systems.

                                       9
<PAGE>

Much of our sales growth and margin expansion in recent years has come from
sales of products into wireless, local area networks, wide area networks and
long-haul communications applications. This market saw a dramatic decline in
total carrier spending throughout calendar year 2001. Moreover, carrier spending
on telecom equipment could decline further in the future. Although we believe
that the communication equipment market has not been characterized by
cyclicality to date, this market may in the future exhibit general cyclical
characteristics similar to the market for semiconductor capital equipment. Any
major reduction in communications infrastructure investment will have a negative
impact on the overall industry and our sales into these end market segments.

We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products required to
maintain or expand our business

We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by price erosion, rapid
technological change and design and other technological obsolescence. Our
competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to achieve design wins
for our products with current and future customers and introduce new or improved
products that meet customer needs while achieving favorable margins. A failure
to achieve design wins, to introduce these new products in a timely manner or to
achieve market acceptance for these products, could harm our business.

The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges
because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in
advance of product sales. The success of a new product depends on accurate
forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as
well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including:

     .    timely and efficient completion of process design and development;

     .    timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly
          processes;

     .    product performance;

     .    the quality and reliability of the product; and

     .    effective marketing, sales and service.

The failure of our products to achieve market acceptance due to these or other
factors could harm our business.

Our products may be found to be defective, product liability claims may be
asserted against us and we may not have sufficient liability insurance

One or more of our products may be found to be defective after shipment,
requiring a product replacement, recall or a software fix which would cure the
defect but impede performance. We may also be subject to product returns which
could impose substantial costs and harm our business.

Product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or
products. Although we currently have product liability insurance, there can be
no assurance that we have obtained sufficient insurance coverage or that we will
have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims.

Our share price could be subject to extreme price fluctuations, and shareholders
could have difficulty trading shares

The markets for high technology companies in particular have been volatile, and
the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to
significant fluctuations. Fluctuations could be in response to operating
results, announcements of technological innovations and market conditions for
technology stocks in general. Additionally, the stock market in recent years has
experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated
to the operating performance of individual companies. These market fluctuations,
as well as general economic conditions, may adversely affect the price of our
common stock.

In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted
against a company following periods of volatility in the company's stock price.
This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs
and divert our management's attention and resources.

In addition, the future sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock
by us or by our existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market
price of the shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that the trading
price of our common stock will remain at or near its current level.

                                       10
<PAGE>

We sell and trade with foreign customers, which subjects our business to
increased risks applicable to international sales

Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 62% of net sales in the
fiscal year ended January 27, 2002. Sales to our customers located in Taiwan
constituted 22% of net sales for fiscal year 2002. International sales are
subject to certain risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory
requirements, tariffs and other barriers, political and economic instability,
difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in managing
distributors and representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign
subsidiary operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors
may harm our business. In addition, substantially all of our foreign sales are
denominated in U.S. dollars and currency exchange fluctuations in countries
where we do business could harm us by resulting in pricing that is not
competitive with prices denominated in local currencies.

Our foreign currency exposures may change over time as the level of activity in
foreign markets grows and could have an adverse impact upon financial results

As a global enterprise, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign
currency exchange rates. Certain of our assets, including certain bank accounts
and accounts receivable, exist in nondollar-denominated currencies, which are
sensitive to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The
nondollar-denominated currencies are principally Euro and British Pounds
Sterling. Additionally, certain of our current and long-term liabilities are
denominated principally in British Pounds Sterling currency, which are also
sensitive to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. With the growth of our
international business, our foreign currency exposures may grow and under
certain circumstances could harm our business.

Our future operating results may fluctuate, fail to match past performance or
fail to meet expectations

Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, may fail to match our past
performance or fail to meet the expectations of analysts and investors. Our
operating results may fluctuate as a result of:

     .    general economic conditions in the countries where we sell our
          products;

     .    seasonality and variability in the computer market and our other end
          markets;

     .    the timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors;

     .    product obsolescence;

     .    the scheduling, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by our
          customers;

     .    the cyclical nature of demand for our customers' products;

     .    our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume
          production at our fabrication facilities;

     .    changes in manufacturing yields;

     .    movements in exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates;

     .    the availability of adequate supply commitments from our outside
          suppliers; and

     .    the manufacturing and delivery capabilities of our subcontractors.

As a result of these factors, our past financial results are not necessarily
indicative of our future results.

We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of
customers and the loss of any one of these customers could adversely affect our
operations

Historically, we have had significant customers that individually accounted for
approximately 10% of consolidated revenues in certain quarters. The identity of
our largest customers has varied from year to year. For the fiscal year 2002 and
fiscal year 2001, one of our ATE end customers, including its subcontractors,
accounted for approximately 13% and 14%, respectively, of net sales. For fiscal
year 2002, one of our Asian distributors accounted for approximately 12% of net
sales.

We primarily conduct our sales on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant
to long-term supply contracts. The loss of any significant customer, any
material reduction in orders by any of our significant customers, the
cancellation of a

                                       11
<PAGE>

significant customer order or the cancellation or delay of a customer's
significant program or product could harm our business.

We have acquired and may continue to acquire other companies and may be unable
to successfully integrate these companies into our operations

In the past we have expanded our operations through strategic acquisitions and
we may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional
acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies into our
operations or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, then we may
experience disruptions that could harm our business. Some of the risks that may
affect our ability to integrate acquired companies include those associated
with:

     . unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company;

     . conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and
       controls with our operations;

     . coordinating our new product and process development;

     . hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and

     . increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our
       operations.



We compete against larger, more established entities and our market share may be
reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by
price erosion, rapid technological change and design and other technological
obsolescence. We compete with domestic and international semiconductor
companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other
resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and
distribution of their products. Some of these competitors include: Texas
Instruments, National Semiconductor, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated
Products, Fairchild Semiconductor and Intersil Semiconductor, with respect to
our power management products; ST Microelectronics N.V., with respect to our
protection products; Analog Devices, Maxim Integrated Products, ON Semiconductor
and Micrel Semiconductor, with respect to our high performance products; Zarlink
Semiconductor and Silicon Laboratories, with respect to our advanced
communications products; and Philips Semiconductors and Synaptics Inc., with
respect to our intelligent input/output devices. We expect continued competition
from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants in the
semiconductor market. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly
evolving area of integrated circuit technology depends on several factors,
including:

     . success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new
       technologies;

     . protection of our processes, trade secrets and know-how;

     . maintaining high product quality and reliability;

     . pricing policies of our competitors;

     . performance of competitors' products;

     . ability to deliver in large volume on a timely basis;

     . marketing, manufacturing and distribution capability; and

     . financial strength.

To the extent that our products achieve market success, competitors typically
seek to offer competitive products or lower prices, which, if successful, could
harm our business.

We must commit resources to product production prior to receipt of purchase
commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment

                                       12
<PAGE>

Sales are made primarily on a current delivery basis pursuant to purchase orders
that may be revised or cancelled by our customers without penalty, rather than
pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Some contracts require that we maintain
inventories of certain products at levels above the anticipated needs of our
customers. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products
without binding purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell
products after we devote significant resources to them could harm our business.

The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain the
specialized technical and management personnel could impair our ability to grow
our business

Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly
qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel. We are particularly
dependent upon the continued services of John D. Poe, our Chief Executive
Officer. We are also dependent on a relatively small group of key technical
personnel with analog and mixed-signal expertise. Personnel with highly skilled
managerial capabilities, analog and mixed-signal design expertise are scarce and
competition for personnel with these skills is intense. There can be no
assurance that we will be able to retain existing key employees or that we will
be successful in attracting, integrating or retaining other highly qualified
personnel in the future. If we are unable to retain the services of Mr. Poe or
existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified
employees, our business would be harmed.

We are subject to environmental regulations which may require us to incur
significant expenditures

We are subject to a variety of United States federal, foreign, state and local
governmental laws, rules and regulations related to the use, storage, handling,
discharge or disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous
chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Any of these regulations could
require us to acquire equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply
with environmental regulations. If we were to incur substantial additional
expenses, product costs could significantly increase, thus harming our business.
Any failure to comply with present or future environmental laws, rules and
regulations could result in fines, suspension of production or cessation of
operations, any of which could harm our business.

Major earthquakes may cause us significant losses

Our corporate headquarters, a portion of our manufacturing facilities, assembly
and research and development activities and certain other critical business
operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. We do not maintain
earthquake insurance and could be harmed in the event of a major earthquake.

Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and
other acts of violence or war may negatively affect our operations and your
investment

The terrorist attacks that took place on September 11, 2001 resulted in
interruption to the business activities of many entities, business losses and
overall disruption of the U.S. economy at many levels. There may be further
terrorist attacks. These attacks or armed conflicts that result may directly
impact our physical facilities or those of our customers and suppliers.
Additionally, these attacks and the military response may cause some of our
customers or potential customers to reduce the level of expenditures on their
services and products that ultimately may reduce our revenue. The consequences
of these reductions are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events
that could have an adverse effect on our business. For example, as a result of
these attacks, insurance premiums for businesses may increase and the scope of
coverage may be decreased. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain adequate
insurance coverage for our business and properties. Furthermore, following these
attacks, governmental agencies have been planning and implementing numerous
changes in the transportation industry. We cannot predict how these changes will
affect our ability to timely import materials from our suppliers located outside
the United States or if there will be any impact on our ability to deliver our
products to our customers without incurring significant delays. To the extent
that these disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, a
general decrease in corporate spending, or our inability to effectively market
our services and products, our business and results of operations could be
harmed.

We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights

We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, but we
rely primarily on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other
contractual provisions, as well as our employees' commitment to confidentiality

                                       13
<PAGE>

and loyalty, to protect our know-how and processes. We intend to continue
protecting our proprietary technology, including through trademark and copyright
registrations and patents. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in
achieving adequate protection. Our failure to adequately protect our material
know-how and processes could harm our business. There can be no assurance that
the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our
patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or
patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will
not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the laws
of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or
sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same
extent as laws in the United States.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement
and litigation regarding patent and intellectual property rights. Due to the
number of competitors, patent infringement is an ongoing risk since other
companies in our industry could have patent rights that may not be identifiable
when we initiate development efforts. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our
intellectual property rights and we may have to defend ourselves against
infringement claims. Any such litigation could be very costly and may divert our
management's resources. If one of our products is found to infringe, we may have
liability for past infringement and may need to seek a license going forward. If
a license is not available or if we are unable to obtain a license on terms
acceptable to us, we would either have to change our product so that it does not
infringe or stop making the product.

We could be required to register as an investment company and become subject to
substantial regulation that would interfere with our ability to conduct our
business

The Investment Company Act requires the registration of companies which are
engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in
securities, or which are engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting,
owning, holding or trading in securities and which own or propose to acquire
investment securities with a value of more than 40% of the company's assets on
an unconsolidated basis (other than U.S. government securities and cash). We are
not engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in
securities, and we intend to invest our cash and cash equivalents in U.S.
government securities to the extent necessary to take advantage of the 40% safe
harbor. To manage our cash holdings, we invest in short-term instruments
consistent with prudent cash management and the preservation of capital and not
primarily for the purpose of achieving investment returns. U.S. government
securities generally yield lower rates of income than other short-term
instruments in which we have invested to date. Accordingly, investing
substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents in U.S. government securities
could result in lower levels of interest income and net income.

If we were deemed an investment company and were unable to rely upon a safe
harbor or exemption under the Investment Company Act, we would among other
things be prohibited from engaging in certain businesses or issuing certain
securities. Certain of our contracts might be voidable, and we could be subject
to civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance.

SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Some of the information in this Form 10-K and in the documents that are
incorporated by reference, including the risk factors in this section, contains
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These
statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In many
cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may,"
"will," "should," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate,"
"predict," "potential," or continue," or the negative of these terms and other
comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. Our actual
results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking
statements as a result of a number of factors including the risks faced by us
described above and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
