ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

General

     We are a leading supplier of analog and mixed-signal semiconductors. We
design, manufacture and market a wide range of products for commercial
applications, the majority of which are sold to the communications, industrial
and computer markets. Our semiconductors enable power management, test,
protection and a wide range of other functions in products that require analog
or mixed-signal processing. Our end customers are primarily original equipment
manufacturers, or OEMs, that produce and sell electronics.

Overview of the Semiconductor Industry

     In the broadest sense, the semiconductor industry is divided into two
distinct groups: analog semiconductors and digital semiconductors. Analog
semiconductors condition and regulate "real world" functions such as
temperature, speed, sound and electrical current. Analog signals behave in a
continuous manner, in contrast to digital circuits which behave as on's and
off's (expressed in binary code as 1's and 0's), such as those used by
computers. Mixed-signal devices incorporate both analog and digital functions
into a single chip and provide the ability for digital electronics to interface
with the outside world. Where digital processing exists in an end consumer
application such as computers, personal digital assistant devices (PDAs),
networks, cellular phones, automated test equipment (ATE), and medical devices,
analog technology is required.

     The market for analog and mixed-signal semiconductors differs from the
market for digital semiconductors. The analog and mixed-signal industry is
characterized by significantly longer product life cycles than the digital
industry because analog technology is applied to real-world functions that
remain relatively consistent. In addition, analog semiconductor manufacturers
tend to have lower capital for manufacturing because their facilities tend to be
less dependent than digital producers on state-of-the-art production equipment.
The end-product markets for analog and mixed-signal semiconductors are smaller
and more varied than the relatively standardized digital semiconductor product
markets. This has resulted in a fragmented market for analog semiconductors, in
contrast to the more homogenous digital semiconductor market.

     Another difference between the analog and digital markets is the amount of
talented labor available. The analog industry relies more heavily than the
digital industry on design and applications talent to distinguish its products
from one another. While digital expertise is extensively taught due to its
overall market size, electrical engineering curricula addressing analog
functions are not widely available in universities. Analog and mixed-signal
expertise tends to be learned over time based on experience and hands-on
training. Consequently, personnel with this training are scarce, a fact that
makes it difficult for new suppliers to quickly gain significant market share.

     We expect certain segments of the analog market, where end-product demand
is strong, to grow at a faster rate than the overall semiconductor market. These
segments include communications infrastructure equipment, portable devices ,
industrial test and certain high-end computing systems. The need for analog
semiconductors in these markets is based on the need to enable the reliability
of emerging communications devices, extend battery lives, achieve higher levels
of integration, increase portability and reduce size. Further, because the
analog industry is smaller and more fragmented than the digital industry, it
tends to offer high-margin opportunities for those companies able to introduce
innovative new product solutions.

                                       2
<PAGE>

     We believe that certain product segments within the analog semiconductor
market will grow even faster than the overall market in the coming years.
Specific factors contributing to the rapid growth in demand for analog and ixed-
signal semiconductors in these segments include the need to enable the
reliability of emerging communications devices, extend battery lives, decrease
voltage tolerances, achieve higher levels of integration, increase portability
and reduce size. These trends increase the need for more complex, high-
performance analog and mixed-signal semiconductors. "High-performance" refers to
devices that have advanced features and superior performance over widely
available "commodity" circuits.


Semtech End Markets

     A majority of our products are sold to customers in the computer,
communications and industrial markets. Up until six years ago, the company had
largely been focused on serving the military and aerospace market. We used the
computer market as our first major entry into the commercial marketplace for our
circuits. Three years ago, approximately half of our revenues were derived from
computer related applications. In recent years, we have seen relative growth
from the communications and industrial markets. We exited fiscal year 2001 with
a near equal balance between the three major markets of computer, communications
and industrial.

     Computer market applications include desktop computers, servers,
workstations, laptop computers, PDAs and computer add-on cards. End-product
applications for our products within the communication market include local area
networks, wide area networks, cellular phones and base-stations. Industrial
applications include automated test equipment, medical devices and factory
automation systems.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Semtech's Main Product                                     Specific End-Product
        Lines                                                  Applications
                            -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     Computer                 Communications                 Industrial
                           -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                        <C>                           <C>                          <C>
Power Management              Desktop PCs, servers,      Cellular phones, network          Power supplies,
                              workstations, notebook     cards, routers and hubs,        industrial systems
                             computers, add-on cards,     telecom network boards
                                       PDAs
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Protection                   Notebook computers, USB       Cellular phones, base       Handled measurement or
                                 ports, LAN cards         stations, DSL, routers       instrumentation devices
                                                                 and hubs
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
High Performance                   Workstations           Cellular base stations,     Automated test equipment
                                                          routers and hubs, SONET
                                                                 networks
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Advanced Communications                                  SONET networks, routers,
                                                           hubs, switches, fiber
                                                                  modems
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Human Interface and System     Notebook computers,         Cellular phones, web         Touch screen systems
 Management                            PDAs                       phones
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Business Strategy

     Our objective is to be the leading supplier of analog and mixed-signal
devices to the fastest growing segments of our target markets, particularly
within the computer, communications and industrial segments. We will leverage
our pool of skilled technical personnel to develop new products, or where
appropriate use acquisitions, to serve the fastest growing segments of these
markets. In order to capitalize on our strengths in analog and mixed-signal
processing design, manufacturing and marketing, we intend to pursue the
following strategies:

Strategy to invest more in intellectual property, and less in capital equipment

     We have developed a strategy to invest heavily in human resources needed to
define, develop and market high-performance products.  Likewise, we tend to
spend nearly three times as much on research and development than we do on
capital expenditures for manufacturing capacity.  We outsource a large portion
of our production and focus more on defining, developing and ultimately selling
our products.  This strategy is different than many of our competitors.

                                       3
<PAGE>

Focus on fast growing market segments

     We have chosen to target the analog segments of the fastest growing end
markets. We will enhance this growth potential by focusing on specific products
within the analog and mixed-signal market, including high-end personal
computers, notebook computers, PDAs, cellular phones, wide area and local area
networks and test systems. These products are characterized by their need for
leading-edge, high-performance, analog and mixed-signal semiconductor
technology.

Continue to release new proprietary products

     We are focused on developing proprietary new products to serve our target
markets. These markets have experienced significant levels of change as consumer
demand for increased product performance at competitive price points continues
to grow. Our technical talent markets and develops new products specifically for
these high-margin, fast growing market segments. Over the past three years, our
pool of skilled technical personnel has grown from 75 to approximately 300, and
the number of new product families introduced in the past four years has
increased from 28 to 138.  We believe that our rate of new product introductions
and number of skilled technical personnel are indicators of our ability to meet
our target markets' evolving needs.


Diversify into new markets

     We will enter new markets that complement our existing operations through
internal development of new products and by strategic acquisitions. We believe
strategic acquisitions will allow us to expand our pool of skilled technical
personnel as well as expand the range of complementary products that we offer.
We have purchased four companies over the past four years that have permitted us
to successfully enter new market segments and develop new products.  Our focus
during fiscal year 2001 was to expand our presence within the two broad markets
of communications infrastructure and portable devices.  A large amount of
resources, namely design and marketing talent, was focused on developing
products for these markets.

Concentrate on cross-selling our products and services

     We consider the ability to cross-sell our products and services a major
opportunity.  Many of our large customers produce a wide variety of end products
that require analog and mixed-signal products.  By leveraging existing
relationships, we believe that we will be able to sell a wider variety of our
products to these organizations. In addition, we believe our marketing
department's technical expertise permits it to identify and capitalize on these
cross-selling opportunities


Product Segments

     We categorize our business into three main product segments. Our
strategically most important product offerings are included in the Standard
Semiconductor Products segment. Standard Semiconductor Products represent
approximately 91 percent of our overall net sales for fiscal year 2001.  The
following is a description of our main product segments:

     Standard Semiconductor Products.   Included in Standard Semiconductor
Products are integrated circuits (ICs) and discrete components designed for use
in standard industry applications. Described below are the main product lines
within our Standard Semiconductor Products.

 .    Power Management Circuits. Power management circuits control, alter,
     regulate and condition the electric pulses that flow through electronics.
     The largest product types within the power management product line are
     linear regulators, switching voltage regulators, combination regulators and
     smart regulators. The primary application for these products is power
     regulation for computer and communications systems.

 .    Protection Products. The largest type of protection products we design and
     market are transient voltage suppressors (TVS). TVS devices provide
     protection for electronic systems where large voltage spikes (called
     transients), such as electrostatic discharge (ESD) generated by the human
     body, can permanently damage voltage-sensitive components. We also have
     developed filter and termination devices that can be sold as a complement
     to TVS devices. Specific protection product applications are found in
     computer, data-communications, telecommunications and industrial markets.

                                       4
<PAGE>

 .    High Performance Circuits. We design and market a wide variety of high
     performance products, namely pin electronics, timing, clock distribution
     and parametric measurement products for use in ATE instrumentation
     applications. Automated test equipment systems are used by electronic
     component manufacturers in the testing of their finished devices. In fiscal
     year 2000, we began marketing high performance ECL clock/logic devices
     intended for use in both ATE and non-ATE applications.

 .    Advanced Communication Circuits . Through internal investment and the
     acquisition of Acapella Limited and Practical Sciences, we are designing a
     line of advanced communication ICs. These circuits are designed to
     transmit/receive signals over fiber optic lines, provide timing and
     synchronization, and other communication functions. Advanced communication
     ICs are used for local area networks, wide area networks and cellular phone
     base stations. We also derive a small amount of revenue from design
     consulting services provided to other manufacturers.

 .    Human Interface Devices (HID) and System Management. Through the
     acquisition of USAR Systems, we now offer a line of system management
     products that include intelligent input/output and smart battery management
     devices. The products included in this offering are touch-screen and touch-
     pad controllers, pointing stick devices and battery management circuits.
     These products are designed to handle human interface and battery function
     in portable systems, like notebook computers, PDSs and cellular phones.

          Rectifier and Assembly Products.  Rectifiers and assemblies are older-
technology products that are principally sold into the military and aerospace
markets.

 .    Rectifiers. We have several different categories of silicon rectifiers,
     which are primarily used to convert alternating current to direct current.
     These products are sold to military, aerospace and medical equipment
     customers.

 .    Assemblies. An assembly is a package of rectifiers of one or more types
     encased in epoxy or silicon by various molding techniques, constituting one
     or more basic rectifier circuits. Assemblies are used for military,
     aerospace and other specialized applications.


          Other Products. We produce and sell Other Products, as detailed below.

 .    Custom and Application Specific Circuits. Other custom and application
     specific integrated circuits (ASICs) include a wide variety of customer and
     application-specific devices. The end markets for these products include
     industrial, consumer, and automotive markets.

 .    Foundry Wafers. We fabricate silicon wafers for other semiconductor
     manufacturers. Much of the processed silicon currently sold goes into
     applications for the computer, automotive and industrial markets.


Intellectual Capital and Product Development

          We believe that emphasis on the development of our intellectual
capital and introduction of new proprietary product designs are key to our
success. Recruiting and retaining technical talent is the foundation for
developing and selling new products into the marketplace. We have been
successful in hiring technical people through active recruitment and through
strategic acquisitions. In fiscal year 2000, we added experienced engineers
through the acquisitions of two companies, USAR Systems and Practical Sciences.
Recruiting of talent has also been benefited by our strategy of having multiple
design center locations throughout the United States and the world for
attracting people.

          Circuit design engineers, or circuit designers, are the most valuable
of all engineers. Circuit designers perform the critical task of designing and
laying out integrated circuits. As of the end of fiscal year 2001, we employed
more than 85 circuit designers. That is up from 70 circuit designers at the end
of fiscal year 2000. A majority of these individuals have senior-level expertise
in the design and development of circuits targeted for use in power management,
protection, high performance and communication applications. We intend to make
further investment in research and development functions during the coming
fiscal years. Additional headcount along with investment in design and
development equipment and overall support of development efforts are the focus
of this investment.

                                       5
<PAGE>

     In fiscal year 1996, we began to invest heavily in design and applications
intended to aid the introduction of new products. We now have dedicated design
centers in Santa Clara, California; Oxnard, California; Raleigh, North Carolina;
Glasgow, Scotland; and Southampton, England. In addition, dedicated high
performance circuit design occurs at the San Diego location, human interface and
system management design occurs in New York and protection product design occurs
at the Company's Newbury Park headquarters.

Sales and Marketing

     Sales made directly to original equipment manufacturers in fiscal year 2001
and in fiscal year 2000 were approximately 80 percent of net sales and the
remaining 20 percent of net sales were made through independent distributors.
The percentage of sales made directly to original equipment manufacturers has
increased in the last four fiscal years as we sell directly to large strategic
customers and as the contribution from the high performance products group,
which has only direct sales, has increased. We have direct sales offices located
in Southern California, Texas and Connecticut which manage the sales activities
of independent sales representative firms and independent distributors within
the United States and Canada. We also have sales offices in France, Germany and
Scotland as well as independent sales representative firms and independent
distributors to serve the European markets. We maintain branch sale offices in
Taipei, Taiwan and Seoul, Korea, along with independent representatives and
distributors for serving the Asian-Pacific territory. We are also represented
outside the United States, Europe and Asia by other independent sales
organizations.


Customers and Sales Data

     For fiscal year 2001, we estimated that 3,000 customers purchased our
products either directly from us or through our authorized distributors. The
following is a representative sample of our target customers:

Representative Customers by End Markets

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
              -------------------------------------------------------------
               Computer        Communications         Industrial
              -------------------------------------------------------------
<S>           <C>              <C>                    <C>
               Acer            Cisco                  Agilent Technologies
               Compaq          Motorola               Honeywell
               Dell            Nortel                 Varian Medical
               IBM             Samsung
               Intel           Siemens
</TABLE>

     Customers that buy our products include major computer and peripheral
manufacturers and their sub-contractors, automated test system manufacturers,
communications equipment producers (both data-communication and
telecommunication), and a variety of both large and small companies serving the
industrial, automotive, aerospace and military markets.

     During fiscal years 2001, 2000, and 1999, foreign sales were 58 percent, 64
percent, and 53 percent, respectively, of net sales. Approximately three
quarters of foreign sales are to customers located in the Asian-Pacific region.
The remaining are into Europe.  The decline in the percent of foreign sales
reflects the reduced percentage of shipments derived from the computer market.
A majority of computer related sales are sold into the Asia region.  Generally,
we conduct sales in the United States Dollar.

     No one customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our net sales for each
of the three fiscal years ended January 28, 2001. In fiscal year 2001, a group
of customers that included one of our automated test equipment customers, their
suppliers and their sub-contractors, accounted for 14 percent of net sales.

Manufacturing Capabilities

  We have manufacturing facilities in California, Texas and Mexico. Our
commercial IC production facilities are located in Santa Clara, California and
Corpus Christi, Texas. In March 2001, we announced plans to sell the Santa Clara
wafer fab facility.  Discrete wafer fabrication, testing, probe and some
assembly activity are performed in Newbury Park, California. The San Diego,
California location serves as the headquarters for our high performance products
group. Design, applications, sales, and other administrative activities related
to the high performance group are conducted at this location. Our Reynosa,
Mexico facility provides assembly and test capabilities for supporting military
and legacy products.

                                       6
<PAGE>

     Over the last several years, we have out-sourced much of the processes
required to make our products. We have always relied on third party contractors
for packaging and testing most of our commercial products. During fiscal year
2001, we began to purchase finished silicon wafers from outside sources, often
called outside foundries. We view the movement towards outsourcing most of our
manufacturing to outside sources as a beneficial and strategic initiative.

     A large part of the manufacturing operation is performed by operators
working on standard equipment in our wafer fabrication lines. New designs or
process modifications are tested by both product and process engineering prior
to being incorporated into the manufacturing process. Our wafer fabrication
facilities employ a variety of Bipolar processes and a limited amount of CMOS
processes. The facilities and related fabrication processes used tend to be
significantly less costly than state-of-the-art digital fabrication facilities
and likewise utilize equipment that is less subject to obsolescence. Unlike the
digital industry, our products are less reliant on state-of-the-art
manufacturing but more on design and applications support.

     We fabricate a majority of our products from basic materials (principally
silicon, ceramic materials, metals and plastics), all of which are available
from a number of suppliers. In fiscal year 2001, we supported approximately 25
percent of our end products with wafers that were fabricated internally. Outside
foundries were used for the remaining 75 percent of fabrication capacity.  As of
the end of fiscal year 2000, we sourced approximately 50 percent of our wafers
from outside foundires and the remianing 50 percent through internal capacity.
As of the end of fiscal year 2001, we estimated that we had adequate capacity in
our internal wafer fabrication capacity to support anticipated growth over the
next two years. All of our high performance, advanced communications and human
interface ICs and a percentage of power management products are fabricated at
outside foundries. Nearly all of our protection products are fabricated
internally.

     We use silicon wafer foundries that are based in the United States, Canada,
Europe and Asia. As of the end of fiscal year 2001, we had foundry relationships
with nine different companies.  Currently, our largest foundry suppliers are
based in the United States and Asia. Contractual agreements exist with each of
the outside foundries. With expansion into higher-end communication product
lines and higher-performance devices, we expect that we will increase, as a
percentage of the total, the amount of outside foundries in order to utilize the
best available technology and leverage the capital investment of others.


Competition

     The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and we expect competitive
pressures to continue. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our
business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit applications and
design talent, our ability to introduce new products and the rate at which we
introduce such new products to offset the relatively short product life cycles
found in the industry which is characterized by decreasing unit selling prices
over the life of a product, our ability to capitalize on efficiencies and
economies of scale in production and sales, and our ability to maintain or
improve our productivity and product yields to reduce manufacturing costs.

     We are in direct and active competition, as to one or more of our product
lines, with at least 30 manufacturers of such products, of varying financial
size and strength. A number of these competitors are dependent on semiconductor
products as their principal source of income, and some are much larger than us.
The number of competitors has grown due to expansion of the market segments in
which we participate. We consider our primary competitors to include Texas
Instruments, National Semiconductor, Linear Technology, Fairchild Semiconductor
and Intersil Semiconductor, all with respect to our power management products;
ST Microelectronics N.V and Microsemi with respect to our protection products;
Analog Devices, Maxim Integrated Products and ON Semiconductors, all with
respect to our high performance/ATE products; Applied Micro Circuits
Corporation, PMC-Sierra Inc. and Vitesse Semiconductor Corp., all with respect
to our advanced communications products; and Philips Semiconductors and
Synaptics Inc. with respect to our HID. Due to the fragmented nature of the
analog semiconductor industry, we estimate that we have no more than 30 percent
product overlap with any single competitor identified.


Patents and Licenses

     Patents, licenses and other rights have not proven in the past to be
significant to our business. However, competition in the commercial marketplace
has required that certain developed devices be protected by patents. We have
pursued patent protection for certain devices. We intend to pursue these rights
for future products that may require protection from use by competitors. At this
time, we do not license our patents.

                                       7
<PAGE>

Environmental Matters

  On February 7, 2000, we were notified by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency with respect to the Casmalia Disposal Site in Santa Barbara,
California.  We have been included in the Superfund program to clean up this
disposal site for our involvement in utilizing this site for waste disposal.  As
of January 28, 2001, we had provided approximately $245,000 for potential
settlement under this program, however, the ultimate resolution and timing of
the resolution is unknown at this time. We believe the amount provided is
sufficient to cover any liability existing based on the currently available
information.

  Certain contaminants have been found in the ground water at our Newbury Park
facility. We have data showing that the contaminants are from an adjacent
facility. We have never used the contaminants in question at our Newbury Park
facility. To protect our interests, we utilize an environmental firm,
specializing in hydrogeology, to perform periodic monitoring. It is currently
not possible to determine the ultimate amount of possible future clean-up costs,
if any, that may be required of us at this site. Accordingly, no reserve for
clean-up has been provided at this time.


Employees

  As of January 28, 2001, we had 777 full-time employees, up from 731 full-time
employees a year earlier.  We have never had a work stoppage, and our domestic
and European employees are not unionized. Our Mexican Maquiladora operation has
unionized employees. Employee relations at the Mexican plant have been, and are,
satisfactory. Competition for key design and application engineers is
significant.


Government Regulations

  We are required to comply with numerous government regulations that are normal
and customary to manufacturing businesses, which operate in our markets and
operating locations. In addition, a substantial portion of our sales that serve
the military and aerospace markets consist of products which have been qualified
to be sold in these markets by the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD). These
products mainly consist of discrete rectifiers and rectifier assemblies. In
order to maintain these qualifications, we must comply with certain
specifications promulgated by the DOD. As part of maintaining these
qualifications we are routinely audited by DOD personnel. Based on the
specifications as they exist today, we believe we can maintain our
qualifications for the foreseeable future. However, these specifications can be
modified by the DOD in the future which may make the manufacturing of these
products more difficult and thus could adversely impact our profitability in
those product lines.


                                 RISK FACTORS

  You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Form
10-K, including the risk factors listed below. Any of these risks could
materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

  Keep these risk factors in mind when you read "forward-looking" statements
elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These statements relate to our expectations about
future events and time periods. Generally, the words "anticipate," "expect,"
"intend" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and
circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-
looking statements.


Risks Related to Our Business


  The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may limit our ability to
maintain or increase revenue and profit levels during industry downturns

  The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. Current industry forecast
suggest that calendar year 2001 will be a down year for the overall
semiconductor and electronics industries.  High levels of semiconductor
component

                                       8
<PAGE>

inventory and declining demand at end-equipment manufacturers could result in a
cyclical downturn in the marketplace. In the prior two years, high consumption
levels by electronics manufactures was a major driver of demand for
semiconductors, including the products we sell.

     Our financial performance may be materially and adversely affected by
significant downturns in the semiconductor industry as a result of:

     .    general economic conditions;

     .    general reductions in inventory levels by customers;

     .    excess production capacity; and

     .    accelerated declines in average selling prices of our products.

The occurrence of these or other conditions in the semiconductor industry in the
future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.


     Economic downturn in our end-markets may have adverse consequences for our
business

     We market our products to several commercial markets, including computers
and peripherals, telecommunications, and industrial and test equipment. A
downturn in any of our markets, particularly the consumer computer industry and
the automated test equipment market, could materially and adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, current
efforts being undertaken by companies in the semiconductor manufacturing
industry to increase worldwide semiconductor manufacturing capacity could lead
to general manufacturing overcapacity and to underutilization of our
manufacturing capacity.


     We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products required to
maintain or expand our business

     We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by price erosion, rapid
technological change and design and other technological obsolescence. Our
competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to introduce new or
improved products that meet customer needs while achieving acceptable margins.
If we fail to introduce these new products in a timely manner or these products
fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results
of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

     The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges
because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in
advance of product sales. The success of a new product depends on accurate
forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as
well as on a variety of specific implementation factors including:

     .    timely and efficient completion of process design and development;

     .    timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly
          processes;

     .    product performance;

     .    the quality and reliability of the product; and

     .    effective marketing, sales and service.

The failure of our products to achieve market acceptance due to these and other
factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition,
and results of operations.

     We may fail to attract or retain the specialized technical and management
personnel required to successfully operate our business

                                       9
<PAGE>

     Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly
qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel. We are particularly
dependent on a relatively small group of key technical personnel with analog and
mixed-signal expertise. Personnel with analog and mixed-signal expertise are
scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense. There can be
no assurance that we will be able to retain existing key technical, marketing
and managerial employees or that we will be successful in attracting,
assimilating or retaining other highly qualified technical, marketing and
managerial personnel in the future. If we are unable to retain existing key
employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, our
business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and
adversely affected.


     We obtain certain components and materials and certain manufacturing
services from a limited number of suppliers and subcontractors, including
foreign-based entities

     Our reliance on a limited number of outside subcontractors and suppliers
for silicon wafers, packaging and certain other tasks involves several risks,
including potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required
components and reduced control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and
quality of components. There can be no assurance that problems will not occur in
the future with suppliers or subcontractors. Disruption or termination of our
supply sources or subcontractors could delay our shipments and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. Delays could also damage relationships with current and prospective
customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain timely deliveries or any other
circumstances that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to
manufacture or package certain components internally could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

     Several of our outside subcontractors and suppliers, including third-party
foundries that supply silicon wafers, are located in foreign countries,
including China, Malaysia, the Philippines and Germany.  Any political turmoil
or trade restrictions could limit our ability to obtain goods and services from
these suppliers and subcontractors. If we find it necessary to transition the
goods and services received from such suppliers or subcontractors to other
firms, potentially at much higher costs, we could experience a delay in
production associated with such a transition.

     Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate, fail to match past
performance, or fail to meet expectations

    Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future, may fail to
match our past performance, or fail to meet the expectations of analysts and
investors. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of:

     .    general economic conditions in the countries where we sell our
          products;

     .    seasonality and variability in the computer market and our other end
          markets;

     .    the timing of our and our competitors' new product introductions;

     .    product obsolescence;

     .    the scheduling, rescheduling, or cancellation of orders by our
          customers;

     .    the cyclical nature of demand for our customers' products;

     .    our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume
          production at our fabrication facilities; (S) changes in manufacturing
          yields;

     .    movements in exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates;

     .    the availability of adequate supply commitments from our outside
          suppliers; and

     .    the manufacturing and delivery capabilities of our subcontractors.

As a result of these factors, our past financial results are not necessarily
indicative of our future results.

                                       10
<PAGE>

     Fluctuations and seasonality in the personal computer industry may have
adverse consequences for our business

     Many of our products are used in personal computers and related
peripherals. Industry-wide fluctuations in the personal computer marketplace
have in the past and may in the future materially and adversely affect our
business. In addition, our past results have reflected some seasonality, with
demand levels being higher in computer segments during the third and fourth
quarters of the year in comparison to the first and second quarters.

     The build-out of the Internet and the related need for communications
infrastructure equipment and higher bandwidth networks has driven overall demand
for semiconductor and our products

     The overall semiconductor industry and our business in particular has
benefited from the build-out of the Internet and the related demand for
communications infrastructure equipment. A large driver in the need for
communication equipment is desire to have higher-speed (higher bandwidth)
networks. The electronics need to support this trend within the communications
market relies heavily on companies like us to develop the circuits used in these
systems.

Any major cut in communications infrastructure investment will have a negative
impact on the overall industry and our sales into these end market segments.
Much of our sales growth and margin expansion in recent years has come from
sales of products into wireless, local area networks, wide area networks and
long-haul communications applications.

     Sales of products into the ATE market were approximately 24 percent of
total net sales in fiscal year 2001; the ATE market is characterized as being
cyclical

     In fiscal year 2001, shipment of products to automated test equipment (ATE)
customers represented approximately 24 percent of net sales. Our line of high
performance products, which is primarily sold into the ATE market, is our
highest margin product line. The ATE market is characterized as being cyclical.
Past downturns in the test equipment and overall market for semiconductor
capital equipment have been sudden and dramatic.

     Interest rates effect our return on excess cash and investments; interest
income has in the past offset interest expense associated with our outstanding
debt

Interest rates effect our return on excess cash and investments. A significant
decline in interest rates would reduce the amount of interest income generated
from our excess cash and investments. In the past, interest income has exceeded
interest expense associated with our corporate debt that was issued at an
effective fixed rate of approximately 5 percent. Current interest rates are
substantially lower than rates at this same time last year.

     We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of
customers

Historically, we have had significant customers that individually accounted for
approximately 10 percent of consolidated revenues in certain quarters. The
composition of our largest customers has varied from year to year. In fiscal
year 2001, we had no customer which accounted for 10 percent of annual net
sales. However, a group of customers that included one of our automated test
equipment customers, their suppliers and their sub-contractors, accounted for 14
percent of net sales in fiscal year 2001.

     We primarily conduct our sales on a purchase order basis, rather than
pursuant to long-term supply contracts. The loss of any significant customer,
any reduction in orders by any of our significant customers, the cancellation of
a significant customer order, or the cancellation or delay of a customer's
significant program or product could materially and adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

     We are expanding and diversifying our operations, and if we fail to manage
our expanding and more diverse operations successfully it may materially and
adversely affected our business

                                       11
<PAGE>

     Our strategy includes expansion and diversification of our operations
through internal development. Our diversification into new markets and product
lines will increase demand on our management, financial resources and
information and internal control systems. Our success depends in significant
part on our ability to implement, improve and expand our systems, procedures and
controls. If we fail to do this at a pace consistent with the development of our
business, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could
be materially and adversely affected.

     As we seek to expand our operations, we expect to encounter a number of
risks, which may include those associated with:

     .    hiring additional management and other critical personnel;

     .    adding equipment and capacity; and

     .    increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our
          operations.


     We have acquired and may continue to acquire other companies and may be
unable to successfully integrate such companies with our operations

     In the past we have expanded our operations through strategic acquisitions
and we may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional
acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies with our
operations, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may
experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the risks that
may affect our ability to integrate companies we acquire include those
associated with:

     .    unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired
          company;

     .    conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and
          controls with our operations;

     .    coordinating our new product and process development;

     .    hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and

     .    increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our
          operations.


     We compete against larger, more established entities

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by
price erosion, rapid technological change and design and other technological
obsolescence. We compete with domestic and international semiconductor
companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other
resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and
distribution of their products. Some of these competitors include: Texas
Instruments, National Semiconductor, Linear Technology, Fairchild Semiconductor
and Intersil Semiconductor, all with respect to our power management products;
ST Microelectronics N.V. with respect to our protection products; Analog
Devices, Maxim Integrated Products and ON Semiconductor, all with respect to our
high performance/ATE products; Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, PMC-Sierra
Inc. and Vitesse Semiconductor Corp., all with respect to our advanced
communications products; and Philips Semiconductors, Synaptics Inc. and
Mitsubishi Electric Corp, all with respect to our intelligent input/output
devices. We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as
competition from new entrants in the semiconductor market. Our ability to
compete successfully in the rapidly evolving area of integrated circuit
technology depends on several factors, including:

     .    success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new
          technologies;

     .    protection of our processes and know-how;

     .    maintaining high product quality and reliability;

     .    pricing policies of our competitors;

     .    performance of competitors' products;

                                       12
<PAGE>

     .    ability to deliver in large volume on a timely basis;

     .    marketing, manufacturing and distribution capability; and

     .    financial strength.


     Fluctuating production yields may increase production costs and cause
inventory shortages

     The manufacture of semiconductor products is a highly complex and precise
process. Defects in masks, impurities in the materials used, contamination of
the manufacturing environment, failure of equipment and other difficulties in
the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be
rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. Wafer yields can
decline without warning, resulting in substantially higher production costs and
inventory shortages. Yield problems may take substantial time to analyze and
correct. Yield problems may also arise from our outsourced third party
manufacturers. We may experience production yield problems in the future that
could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations.


     We must commit resources to product production prior to receipt of purchase
commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment

     Sales are made primarily on a current delivery basis pursuant to purchase
orders that may be revised or cancelled without penalty, rather than pursuant to
long-term supply contracts. Some contracts require us to maintain inventories of
certain products at levels above the anticipated needs of our customers. As a
result, we must commit resources to the production of products without any
advance purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products
after we devote significant resources to them could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

     We may underutilize our manufacturing facilities or we may have inadequate
facilities to meet the demand for our products

     We may underutilize our manufacturing facilities from time to time as a
result of reduced demand for our products. If demand for our products does not
increase consistent with our plans and expectations, we will likely underutilize
our manufacturing facilities which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

     Conversely, there may be situations in the future in which our
manufacturing facilities will be inadequate to meet the demand for our products.
Our inability to generate sufficient manufacturing capacities to meet demand,
either through our own facilities or through outsourcing to third parties, could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

     We sell and trade with foreign customers, which subjects our business to
increased risks applicable to international sales

     Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 52 percent of net
sales in the fiscal year ended January 28, 2001 and 64 percent of net sales for
fiscal year 2000. The percentage of international sales may increase in future
years. International sales are subject to certain risks, including unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements, fluctuations in exchange rates, tariffs and
other barriers, political and economic instability, difficulties in accounts
receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors and
representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary
operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. There can be no assurance
that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even
though the majority of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars,
currency exchange fluctuations in countries where we do business could
materially and adversely affect us by resulting in pricing that is not
competitive with prices denominated in local currencies.

     We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights

                                       13
<PAGE>

     Few of our products are protected by patents and we rely primarily on a
combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as
well as the commitment to confidentiality and loyalty of our employees, to
protect our know-how and processes. We intend to continue to protect our
proprietary technology through copyrights and trade secrets and, to a limited
extent, patents. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving
adequate protection. Our failure to adequately protect our material know-how and
processes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the steps we
have taken will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights or that a
competitor will not independently develop similar or superior know-how or
processes. Also, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be
developed, manufactured , or sold may not protect our products and intellectual
property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States.

     The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation
regarding patent and intellectual property rights. Due to the number of
competitors, the potential for patent infringement exists and is an ongoing risk
since other companies in our industry could have patent rights which may not be
identifiable when we initiate development efforts. Litigation, which could
result in substantial cost and diversion of resources, may be necessary to
enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves against
infringement claims. We may also be subject to future intellectual property
claims or judgments. If these were to occur, we may be unable to obtain a
license on favorable terms, if at all, or without a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

     We are subject to environmental regulations

     We are subject to a variety of United States federal, foreign, state and
local governmental laws, rules and regulations related to the use, storage,
handling, discharge or disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise
hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Any of these regulations
could require us to acquire equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to
comply with environmental regulations. If we were to incur substantial
additional expenses, product costs could significantly increase, thus materially
and adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of
operations. Any failure to comply with present or future environmental laws,
rules and regulations could result in fines, suspension of production or
cessation of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

     Our products may be found to be defective, product liability claims may be
asserted against us and we may not have sufficient liability insurance

     One or more of our products may be found to be defective after we have
already shipped such products in volume, requiring a product replacement,
recall, or a software fix which would cure the defect but impede performance. We
may also be subject to product returns which could impose substantial costs and
have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

     Product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or
products. Although we currently have product liability insurance, there can be
no assurance that we have obtained sufficient insurance coverage or that we will
have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims.

     Some of our facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines

     Our corporate headquarters, a portion of our manufacturing facilities,
assembly and research and development activities and certain other critical
business operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. We could be
materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. We do not
maintain earthquake insurance.

     We could be required to register as an investment company and become
subject to substantial regulation that would interfere with our ability to
conduct our business.

     We invest in short-term instruments consistent with prudent cash management
and not primarily for the purpose of achieving investment returns. This could
result in our being required to register and be treated as an investment company
under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Investment Company Act requires
the registration of companies which are engaged primarily in the business of
investing, reinvesting or trading in securities or which are engaged in
investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and over 40% of
whose assets on an

                                       14
<PAGE>

unconsolidated basis (other than government securities and cash) consist of
investment securities. While we do not believe that we are engaged primarily in
the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, we may invest
our cash and cash equivalents in government securities to the extent necessary
to avoid having over 40% of our assets consist of investment securities.
Government securities are defined as securities issued by the U.S. government
and certain federal agencies. These securities generally yield lower rates of
income than other short-term instruments in which we have invested to date.
Accordingly, investing substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents in
government securities could result in lower levels of interest income and net
income.

     If we were required to register as an investment company under the
Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with
respect to our capital structure, management, operations, transactions with
affiliated persons, if any, and other matters, incur substantial costs and
experience a disruption of our business. Application of the provisions of the
Investment Company Act to us would materially and adversely affect our business,
prospects, financial condition and results of operations.
