Item 1 Business

OVERVIEW

We design, develop, manufacture and market proprietary radio frequency,
microwave frequency and millimeter wave frequency integrated circuits and
discrete semiconductors for wireless voice and data and broadband
communications. The primary applications for our products include wireless
handsets, wireless infrastructure and broadband communications equipment. We
also produce integrated circuits, discrete components, electrical ceramics and
ferrites used in wireless base station equipment, cable television, cable modems
and other broadband applications, wireless local loop, wireless personal digital
assistants and wireless local area networks.

We offer a broad range of products, including integrated circuit (IC) switches
and controls, power amplifiers, discrete semiconductors and multi-chip modules
that comprise a significant part of the radio frequency devices used in wireless
telephone handsets. We use a range of technologies, processes and materials to
meet our customers' performance requirements, including gallium arsenide metal
semiconductor field effect transistor (GaAs MESFET), gallium arsenide
pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistor (GaAs PHEMT), silicon and
electrical ceramic. Through our acquisition of Network Device, Inc. (NDI) in
April 2000, we offer power amplifiers and other devices made with a gallium
arsenide heterojunction bipolar transistor (GaAs HBT) process and an indium
gallium phosphide HBT process (InGaP HBT). In May 2001, we announced the
introduction of the world's first tri-band power amplifier module employing
InGaP HBT process technology. The AP134 module is designed for use in existing
dual-mode wireless handsets and is fully General Packet Radio Service (GPRS)
compliant. We also announced the shipment of our first volume order of a new
family of broadband amplifiers utilizing our InGaP HBT technology.

During fiscal 2001, we announced the introduction of our Alpha Integration
Platform(TM) (aiIP(TM)), a breakthrough manufacturing, packaging and design
technique, combining various radio frequency (RF) components in a single
module-based platform. The aiIP satisfies the market's demand for RF solutions
that will reduce design complexity and improve the OEMs' overall time to market
for new products. Utilizing this technique, we introduced state-of-the-art
switch/filter technology for wireless handsets. These switch/filter products
combine multiple functions in a single, module-based platform.

We also announced the introduction of our Alpha-2(TM) multi-chip module
packaging technology, which will dramatically reduce the cost of manufacturing
high-speed and high-frequency data communications equipment. Alpha-2 technology
provides the first surface-mounted package specifically designed for
high-frequency and high-speed ICs. The Alpha-2 package is compatible with
standard tape-and-reel manufacturing, making it ideal for use in high-speed data
communications equipment.

We divide our operations into two segments to address the distinct dynamics of
different markets:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         SEMICONDUCTOR PRODUCTS             CERAMIC PRODUCTS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                     <C>                              <C>
Primary Products        GaAs Integrated Circuits         Electrical Ceramics
                        Discrete Semiconductors          Ferrites
                        Multi-Chip Modules
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Primary Markets         Wireless Handsets                Wireless Infrastructure
                        Wireless Infrastructure          Broadband Communications
                        Broadband Communications
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                       2
<PAGE>   3
                                         ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


Our Semiconductor Products segment supplies GaAs integrated circuits and
discrete semiconductors in high volume for wireless telephone handsets and
wireless data applications. These products are used in equipment incorporating
the leading digital standards, Global System for Mobile Communications, or GSM,
Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA (IS95), and Time Division Multiple
Access, or TDMA (IS136).

Our Ceramic Products segment uses electrical ceramic and ferrite technologies to
supply resonators and filters, primarily for wireless base station equipment.

Financial information about segments and geographic areas can be found in Note
10 to the consolidated financial statements filed as part of this report.

We were incorporated in 1962 under the laws of the state of Delaware.

PRODUCTS AND APPLICATIONS

We offer a broad array of radio frequency, microwave frequency and millimeter
wave frequency products to the wireless and broadband markets, including GaAs IC
switches and controls, GaAs integrated circuit power amplifiers, silicon
discrete semiconductors, ceramic resonators and multi-chip modules. A typical
end product for wireless communications, such as a handset, contains radio
frequency, baseband and digital signal processing components. Radio frequency
components convert, switch, process and amplify the high frequency signals that
carry the information to be transmitted or received. Baseband components process
signals into and from their original electrical form (low frequency voice or
data). The digital components control the overall circuitry and process the
voice or other data to be transmitted and received.

The table below identifies the major product categories and markets we serve.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 POWER       SMALL SIGNAL &                                                      MILLIMETER
                               AMPLIFIER     MULTIFUNCTION                         DISCRETE        CERAMIC         WAVE
        MARKETS                   ICS             ICS           SWITCH ICS      SEMICONDUCTORS     PRODUCTS      PRODUCTS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                            <C>           <C>                <C>             <C>                <C>           <C>
   WIRELESS VOICE & DATA
     Handsets                      -                                 -                -
     PDAs                          -                                 -                -
     Infrastructure                -               -                 -                -                -             -
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   BROADBAND
     Wireless                                      -                 -                -                -             -
     Cable TV & Modems             -               -                 -                -                -             -
     Fiber                                         -                 -                -                -             -
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                       3
<PAGE>   4
ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


SEMICONDUCTOR PRODUCTS

The diagram below illustrates the role of many of our Semiconductor Products in
a dual band and dual mode wireless telephone handset.


                     [DUAL BAND/DUAL MODE HANDSET DIAGRAM]


Power Amplifiers. Wireless communications systems require amplification in
receiving and transmitting signals. Relatively weak incoming signals must be
amplified without adding background noise. GaAs power amplifiers are used in
handsets because they use battery power more efficiently than silicon
amplifiers, and battery life is a critical system feature in these portable
applications. We have been a leader in innovative GaAs power amplifier ICs. We
were the first merchant semiconductor company to offer a three volt,
high-efficiency PHEMT power amplifier IC for GSM operating at three different
frequencies. This product has been in continuous production for more than a
year. We were also the first to deliver a three volt MESFET GaAs power amplifier
IC, which has now been in continuous, high-volume production for more than three
years. In addition, our acquisition of NDI has provided us with GaAs HBT process
technology, which has opened new power amplifier opportunities and complements
our strength in the GaAs PHEMT and GaAs MESFET processes.

Integrated Circuit Switches and Controls. Switching and control functions route
and adjust signal levels between the receiver and transmitter and other
processing devices. The number of switching functions increases with the
complexity of the handset design. In the dual band/dual mode handset
illustrated, the switches perform three different routing functions, including:
signal routing to transmitter or receiver; signal routing to cellular or PCS
frequency; and signal routing to digital or analog mode.

Our GaAs integrated circuit switches are used in handsets to provide lower
signal loss and better signal isolation than comparable products. Our
ultra-high-efficiency GaAs PHEMT switch ICs integrate logic elements, making
their usage even easier for our OEM customers. The GaAs HBT process has not been
suitable for switches.


                                       4
<PAGE>   5
                                         ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


Discrete Semiconductors. Discrete semiconductors, especially diodes, are used
for signal tuning and switching functions in the handset. We draw on our
microwave frequency and millimeter wave frequency experience to produce diodes
with better circuit performance. We manufacture these products in very high
volumes for several handset OEMs.

Multi-Chip Modules. Multi-chip modules combine various semiconductor processes,
such as HBT, PHEMT and RF discrete semiconductors, in a single module-based
platform. The result is an easy-to-manufacture solution that enables broadband
and wireless OEMs to reduce design complexity and dramatically shorten their
product development cycle.

CERAMIC PRODUCTS

Our ceramic products play a critical role in the signal selection, or filtering
process, that is essential to processing communications signals. Ceramic
materials allow improved power efficiency and miniaturization, and are being
increasingly used in wireless communications infrastructure. Additionally,
ceramic products are essential to the broadband market through their presence in
point-to-point radios, fiber optics and CATV HFC (cable television hybrid fiber
coax system) networks. Ceramic products are also critical in the
frequency-determining portions of DBS/VSAT (digital broadcast satellite/very
small aperture terminal) receivers, radar detectors and intrusion alarms.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

We sell our products through independent manufacturers' representatives and
distribution partners, and through a direct sales staff. We sell through 12
domestic and 19 international independent manufacturers' representative
organizations. We also distribute product through a global organization that is
franchised throughout portions of the world, and through two organizations that
focus primarily on the North American market. Our field support management staff
oversees our manufacturers' representatives and distributors and provides them
with sales direction and support. Our direct sales staff manages key customer
accounts and worldwide customer support and identifies and targets sales in
emerging wireless and broadband markets.

We maintain an internal marketing organization that is responsible for
developing sales and advertising literature, such as product announcements,
catalogs, brochures and magazine articles in trade and other publications. Our
internal marketing organization also prepares technical presentations for
industry conferences.

We believe that the technical and complex nature of our products and markets
demands an extraordinary commitment to close ongoing relationships with our
customers. We strive to maintain close contact with our customers' design,
engineering, manufacturing, purchasing and project management personnel. We
employ a team approach in developing close relationships by combining the
support of design and applications engineers, manufacturing personnel, sales and
marketing staff and senior management. We believe that maintaining close contact
with our customers improves their level of satisfaction, assists us in
anticipating their future product needs and enhances our opportunities for
design wins.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our products and markets are subject to continued technological advances.
Recognizing this, we maintain a high level of R&D activities to remain
competitive in certain areas and to be an industry leader in other areas. We
maintain close collaborative relationships with many of our customers to help us
identify market demands and target our development efforts to meet those
demands. We are focusing our development efforts on new products, design tools
and manufacturing processes in our Semiconductor Products segment using our core
technologies. We strive to improve existing product performance, improve design
and manufacturing processes and reduce costs. The introduction of our aiIP
technique and Alpha-2 multi-chip


                                       5
<PAGE>   6
ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


module packaging technology during fiscal 2001 is evidence of our focus in this
area. Further evidence of our commitment to R&D is our introduction of the
world's first tri-band power amplifier module employing InGaP HBT process
technology and the introduction of breakthrough switch/filter technology for
wireless handsets. The switch/filter products combine multiple functions in a
single, module-based platform and utilize our aiIP technique.

GaAs HBT Capabilities. On April 24, 2000, we acquired NDI of Sunnyvale,
California. The acquisition provided a production-ready InGaP HBT process,
enabling the production of high efficiency HBT power amplifiers for wireless
telephone handsets. GaAs HBT process technology works at higher frequencies and
requires less power to transmit signals than traditional silicon semiconductors,
and it provides greater efficiency and linearity than GaAs MESFET devices. For
cellular telephones, this permits smaller handsets and longer talk-time between
battery charges. HBT power amplifiers are also particularly well suited for use
in the emerging wireless and broadband markets. The addition of a line of GaAs
HBT products has complemented our existing GaAs PHEMT and GaAs MESFET devices,
enabling us to offer our customers the full range of currently available GaAs
processes for use in wireless telephone handsets, wireless data applications and
broadband data applications.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2001, we shipped our first volume order of a
new family of broadband amplifiers, the first products based on our advanced
InGap HBT technology, for use in a wide range of wireless and broadband
applications.

Our R&D expenditures for fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999 were $36.0 million, $25.3
million and $15.9 million, respectively.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally
available from several sources. It is our policy not to depend on a sole source
of supply. However, there are limited situations where we procure certain
components and services for our products from single or limited sources. We
purchase these materials and services on a purchase order basis. We do not carry
significant inventories and have long-term supply contracts with only a limited
number of our vendors.

WORKING CAPITAL

Our business is not seasonal, and there are no special practices with respect to
working capital for us or the industry in general. We provide a limited warranty
on our products against defects in material and workmanship. Payment terms are
generally 30 days in the domestic market and 60 days in foreign markets.

CUSTOMERS

During fiscal 2001, Motorola, Inc. and Ericsson accounted for approximately 26%
and 11%, respectively, of our total sales.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We compete on the basis of price, performance, quality, reliability, size,
ability to meet delivery requirements and customer service and support. However,
we experience intense competition worldwide from a number of multinational
companies that offer a variety of competitive products and broader product
lines, and which have substantially greater financial resources and production,
marketing, manufacturing, engineering and other capabilities than we do. We also
face competition from a number of smaller companies. In addition, our customers,
particularly our largest customers, may have or could acquire the


                                       6
<PAGE>   7
                                         ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


capability to develop or manufacture products competitive with those that have
been or may be developed or manufactured by us.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own certain patents and have other patent applications under preparation or
pending. However, we believe that our technological position depends primarily
on our ability to develop new innovative products through the technical
competence of our engineering personnel.

BACKLOG

Our policy is to book only the next three months of commercial orders consistent
with customer short-term requirements. Many commercial orders cover
substantially more than three months of performance, but such orders can be
easily modified or cancelled by the customer and we believe it is a better
practice to limit bookings in this manner. On this basis, we believe all orders
in our backlog to be firm. However, current market conditions make predictions
about future operations particularly difficult. While we believe all orders in
our backlog to be firm, our operating results have been materially and adversely
affected in the past by deferral and cancellation of orders as a result of
changes in customer requirements.

We have backlog of undelivered orders on April 1, 2001 of approximately $38.7
million compared with $55.7 million on April 2, 2000.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

In our opinion, compliance with federal, state, and local environmental
protection regulations does not and will not have a material effect on our
capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive
officers during fiscal 2001:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
      NAME                           AGE     POSITION

<S>                                  <C>     <C>
      George S. Kariotis             78      Chairman Emeritus and Director
      Thomas C. Leonard              66      Chairman of the Board of Directors
      David J. Aldrich               44      President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
      Paul E. Vincent                53      Vice President, Treasurer, Secretary and Chief Financial Officer
      Jean-Pierre Gillard            57      Vice President
      Richard Langman                54      Vice President and President of Trans-Tech, Inc.
      Bruce Nonnemaker               54      Vice President
</TABLE>

All officers serve until the next Board of Directors meeting following the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled for September 10, 2001, or until their
successors are elected and qualified. No officer was elected pursuant to any
arrangement or understanding.

George S. Kariotis was elected Chairman Emeritus in April 2000. Prior to this
election, Mr. Kariotis served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer from our inception in 1962 to 1978, and, from 1974 to 1978, he was also
our Treasurer. From 1979 to 1983, Mr. Kariotis was the Secretary of Manpower
Development and Economic Affairs for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. He was
re-elected Chairman


                                       7
<PAGE>   8
ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


of the Board in 1983 and Chief Executive Officer in 1985. Mr. Kariotis resigned
as Chief Executive Officer in July 1986 while he campaigned for public office.
He resumed his position as Chief Executive Officer in November 1986, and served
in that capacity until 1991. Mr. Kariotis served as Chairman of the Board since
his re-election in 1983 up until his election to Chairman Emeritus in April
2000. Mr. Kariotis has been a Director since 1962 and continues to serve in that
capacity.

Thomas C. Leonard was elected Chairman of the Board in April 2000. Prior to his
election, Mr. Leonard served as Chief Executive Officer since July 1996. Mr.
Leonard also served as our President from July 1996 to September 1999. In August
1996, Mr. Leonard was elected a Director. Mr. Leonard joined us in 1992 as a
division General Manager, and, in 1994, he was elected a Vice President. Mr.
Leonard has over 30 years experience in the microwave industry, having held a
variety of executive and senior level management and marketing positions at
M/A-COM, Inc., Varian Associates, Inc. and Sylvania.

David J. Aldrich was elected President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of
the Board of Directors in April 2000. Mr. Aldrich joined us in 1995 as Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He served as Vice President
and General Manager of the Semiconductor Products segment until his election in
September 1999 to President and Chief Operating Officer. From 1989 to 1995, Mr.
Aldrich held senior management positions at M/A-COM, Inc., including Manager
Integrated Circuits Active Products, Corporate Vice President Strategic
Planning, Director of Finance and Administration, and Director of Strategic
Initiatives with the Microelectronics Division.

Paul E. Vincent joined us as Controller in 1979 and has been Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer since January 1997. Mr. Vincent was elected Secretary in
September 1999. Prior to joining us, Mr. Vincent worked at Applicon Incorporated
and, prior to that, Arthur Andersen & Co. Mr. Vincent is a CPA.

Richard Langman joined us in January 1997 as Vice President, and as President
and General Manager of our Trans-Tech, Inc. subsidiary. Prior to joining us, Mr.
Langman worked for Coors Ceramics Company for 23 years, holding senior executive
positions in operations and sales.

Jean-Pierre Gillard joined us in 1992 as Manager of GaAs integrated circuit
operations and has been Vice President of Business Development since June 1996.
Before 1992, he held a number of management positions at M/A-COM, Inc. in both
marketing and sales.

Bruce Nonnemaker joined us in 1997 as Director of Operations for the
Semiconductor Products segment. Mr. Nonnemaker served in this capacity until his
election to Vice President, Operations in September 1999. Prior to joining us,
Mr. Nonnemaker held senior operations management positions at Digital Equipment
Corporation. Before this, he held senior operations positions at Western
Digital, Commodore Computer and Solid State Scientific.

EMPLOYEES

As of April 1, 2001, we employed approximately 1,120 persons, compared with
1,090 persons as of April 2, 2000.
