ITEM 1. Business.  

 

General Information 

 

Texas Instruments Incorporated (“TI” or the “company,” including subsidiaries except where the context indicates otherwise) is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries. The company has three business segments: Semiconductor, Sensors & Controls, and Educational & Productivity Solutions. TI’s largest geographic markets are in Asia, Europe, the United States and Japan. TI has been in operation since 1930. 

 

The financial information with respect to TI’s business segments and operations outside the United States, which is contained in the note to the financial statements captioned “Business Segment and Geographic Area Data” on pages 35 through 38 of TI’s 2003 annual report to stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference to such annual report. 

 

Semiconductor 

 

The Semiconductor business comprised 85 percent of TI’s 2003 revenue. TI’s core Semiconductor business is the design, manufacture and sale of analog integrated circuits and digital signal processors (DSPs), which are used in a broad range of electronic systems. These systems include cellular telephones, personal computers, servers, communications infrastructure equipment, motor controls, automotive equipment and digital imaging systems such as front projectors and high-definition digital televisions. More than 30,000 customers in the commercial, industrial and consumer markets purchased TI products in 2003. 

 

The company’s products are sold to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), contract manufacturers and distributors. An OEM designs and sells products under its own brand that it manufactures in-house or has contracted to other manufacturers. TI’s largest single customer is an OEM, the Nokia group of companies, which accounted for 14 percent of TI’s 2003 revenue. An ODM designs and manufactures products for other companies to sell under their brands. Distributors, which account for about 25 percent of TI’s Semiconductor revenue, sell TI products directly to a wide range of customers. 

 

The semiconductor market is intensely competitive and is subject to rapid technological change, pricing pressures, and the requirement of high rates of investment for research and development (R&D) and for the manufacturing factories and equipment needed to produce advanced semiconductors. TI faces significant competition in each of its product lines. 

 

Analog Products: Analog semiconductors process continuous signals such as temperature, pressure and visual images. TI’s Analog semiconductors consist of custom products and standard products. Custom products are designed for specific customers for specific applications such as wireless cell phones, printers and automotive systems. Standard products include application-specific standard products (designed for a specific application and usable by multiple customers) and high-performance standard catalog products (usable in multiple applications by multiple customers). These standard products are characterized by differentiated features and specifications, as well as relatively high margins, and are generally sold in high volumes. Both custom and standard products are proprietary and difficult for competitors to imitate. Commodity standard products are sold in high volume into a broad range of applications, and generally are differentiated by price and availability. TI is one of the world’s largest suppliers of Analog semiconductors. 

 

The analog market is highly fragmented, and TI competes globally with numerous large and small companies, both broad-based suppliers and companies focused on a narrow range of products. Primary competitive factors are the recruitment and retention of skilled analog engineers, the creation of innovative designs, the implementation of multiple advanced manufacturing process technologies and the provision of applications support. 

 

DSP Products: DSP is one of the fastest-growing sectors of the semiconductor industry. DSPs use complex algorithms and signal-compression techniques to provide real-time, power-efficient 

 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

processing of real-world analog signals that have been converted into digital form. TI’s DSP business includes custom-designed and standard products for a broad range of applications, including communications such as wireless and broadband, computer peripherals and digital consumer electronics. 

 

In DSP, TI competes globally with numerous large and small companies, both broad-based suppliers and companies focused on a narrow range of products. Primary competitive factors are the ability to design and cost-effectively manufacture products, systems knowledge about targeted end markets, software expertise and applications support. 

 

Other Semiconductor Products: TI also designs and manufactures other semiconductor products including: 

 

  • standard logic products, which are commodity components that serve a broad range of customers in diverse markets,  

 

  • Digital Light ProcessingTM (DLPTM) products, which are micro-electromechanical systems that use optical semiconductors to manipulate light digitally; end applications include business and home front projectors, high-definition digital televisions and digital cinema projectors,  

 

  • application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), which are typically custom designed for a particular customer’s end-equipment application,  

 

  • reduced instruction-set computing (RISC) microprocessors, which are a type of microprocessor designed to provide very fast computing, typically for a specialized application such as servers, and  

 

  • microcontrollers, which typically integrate multiple functions to control a particular system.  

 

In addition, TI’s semiconductor patent portfolio is an ongoing contributor to Semiconductor revenue. 

 

Semiconductor Manufacturing: TI owns and operates semiconductor manufacturing facilities that require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in operation. Because TI owns most of its manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of the company’s operating costs are fixed. In general, these costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or the company’s utilization of its manufacturing capacity, and can adversely affect profit margins as a result. Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, which should benefit profit margins. TI also outsources a portion of its product manufacturing to outside suppliers (foundries and assembly/test subcontractors). TI outsources the manufacture of some products when it would be less cost-efficient to make those products in-house (for example, when relatively high capital expenditures for equipment would be required to manufacture relatively low-volume products whose demand would be unlikely to keep the equipment adequately utilized). TI also outsources when very high demand for its products exceeds the company’s installed manufacturing capacity. The effect of these outsourcing practices is to reduce the amount of capital expenditures and subsequent depreciation required to meet customer demand, as well as fluctuations in profit margins. 

 

Other TI Businesses 

 

Sensors & Controls comprised about 10 percent of TI’s 2003 revenue. This organization sells custom-designed sensors, controls, and radio-frequency identification (RFID) systems. TI’s sensor products include pressure sensors and transducers for automotive systems (such as fuel injection and vehicle stability systems) and heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment. TI’s control products include motor protectors, circuit breakers, arc-fault circuit protectors and thermostats for aircraft, air conditioning, appliance, lighting and industrial applications. TI’s RFID systems consist of a transponder, receiver and other components; applications include automotive security, logistics tracking, inventory control and wireless commerce at retail outlets. Typically the top supplier in targeted product areas, Sensors & Controls faces strong multinational and regional competitors. The primary competitive factors in this business are product reliability, manufacturing costs and engineering expertise. The products of the business are sold to OEMs and distributors. 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) comprised about 5 percent of TI’s 2003 revenue and is a leading supplier of graphing handheld calculators and other calculators. An understanding of the education market, technology expertise and price are primary competitive factors in this business. TI’s principal competitors in this business are U.S.- and Japan-based companies. This business sells primarily through retailers and to schools through instructional dealers. 

 

Acquisitions and Divestitures 

 

From time to time TI considers acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen its business portfolio. In the third quarter of 2003, TI acquired Radia Communications, Inc., a semiconductor company specializing in the development of radio frequency semiconductor subsystems, signal processing and networking technologies for 802.11 wireless local area networking multiband/multimode radios. 

 

Backlog 

 

The dollar amount of backlog of orders believed by TI to be firm was $1708 million at December 31, 2003, and $1198 million at December 31, 2002. Backlog orders are, under certain circumstances, subject to cancellation. A substantial number of orders are shipped during the same quarter in which they are received. Accordingly, the company believes that its backlog at any particular date may not be indicative of revenue for any future period. 

 

Raw Materials 

 

TI purchases materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers. The materials, parts and supplies essential to TI’s business are generally available at present and TI believes that such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future. 

 

Patents and Trademarks 

 

TI owns many patents, and has many patent applications pending, in the United States and other countries in fields relating to its business. The company has developed a strong, broad-based patent portfolio and continually adds patents to that portfolio. TI also has several agreements with other companies involving license rights and anticipates that other licenses may be negotiated in the future. TI does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent license, although taken as a whole, the rights of TI and the products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to TI’s business. 

 

TI owns trademarks that are used in the conduct of its business. These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which are “Texas Instruments” and TI’s corporate monogram. Other valuable trademarks include DLPTM and OMAPTM. 

 

Research and Development 

 

TI’s R&D expense was $1748 million in 2003, compared with $1619 million in 2002 and $1598 million in 2001. Included is a charge for the value of acquisition-related in-process R&D of $23 million in 2003, $1 million in 2002, and zero in 2001. 

 

Seasonality 

 

TI’s revenue and operating results are subject to some seasonal variation. In particular, E&PS is subject to seasonal variation, experiencing its strongest revenue and operating results in the second and third quarters as retailers stock for the back-to-school season. 

 

Employees 

 

At December 31, 2003, the company had 34,154 employees. 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations 

 

You should read the following cautionary statements in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of TI’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings. These cautionary statements are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect the financial condition and results of operations of TI and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to companies with broad international operations, such as TI. Like other companies, TI is susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and performance of TI or its customers. Similarly, the price of TI’s securities is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in TI’s results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community, and other factors beyond TI’s control. 

 

Weakening or Delayed Recovery in the Semiconductor Market May Adversely Affect TI’s Performance. 

 

TI’s semiconductor business represents its largest business segment and the principal source of its revenue. The semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns. Weakening or delayed recovery in the semiconductor market could adversely affect TI’s results of operations and have an adverse effect on the market price of its securities. In particular, TI’s strategic focus in this business is on the development and marketing of analog integrated circuits and digital signal processors. The results of TI’s operations may be adversely affected in the future if demand for analog integrated circuits or digital signal processors decreases or if these markets or key end-equipment markets such as telecommunications and computers grow at a significantly slower pace than expected by management. 

 

TI’s Margins May Vary over Time. 

 

TI’s profit margins may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in its shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of, its inventory and shifts in its product mix. In addition, the highly competitive market environment in which the company operates might adversely affect pricing for the company’s products. Because TI owns most of its manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of the company’s operating costs are fixed. In general, these costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or the company’s utilization of its manufacturing capacity, and can adversely affect profit margins as a result. 

 

The Technology Industry Is Characterized by Rapid Technological Change That Requires TI to Develop New Technologies and Products. 

 

TI’s results of operations depend in part upon its ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological environment. TI requires significant capital to develop new technologies and products to meet changing customer demands that, in turn, may result in shortened product lifecycles. Moreover, expenditures for technology and product development are generally made before the commercial viability for such developments can be assured. As a result, there can be no assurance that TI will successfully develop and market these new products, that the products TI does develop and market will be well received by customers or that TI will realize a return on the capital expended to develop such products. 

 

TI Faces Substantial Competition That Requires TI to Respond Rapidly to Product Development and Pricing Pressures. 

 

TI faces intense technological and pricing competition in the markets in which it operates. TI expects that the level of this competition will increase in the future from large, established semiconductor and related product companies, as well as from emerging companies serving niche markets also served by TI. Certain of TI’s competitors possess sufficient financial, technical and management resources to develop and market products that may compete favorably against those products of TI that currently offer technological and/or price advantages over competitive products. Competition results in price and product development pressures, which may result in reduced profit margins and lost business opportunities in the event that TI is unable to match price declines or technological, product, applications support, software or manufacturing advances of its competitors. 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TI’s Performance Depends in Part upon Its Ability to Enforce Its Intellectual Property Rights and to Develop or License New Intellectual Property. 

 

TI benefits from royalties generated from various license agreements. Some agreements will come up for renegotiation in 2005. Others will come up for renegotiation in later years. Access to worldwide markets depends in part on the continued strength of TI’s intellectual property portfolio. Future royalty revenue depends on the strength of TI’s portfolio and enforcement efforts, and on the sales and financial stability of TI’s licensees. Additionally, the consolidation of TI’s licensees may negatively affect TI’s royalty revenue. TI actively enforces and protects its intellectual property rights, but there can be no assurance that TI’s efforts will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation or improper use of the protected technology. Moreover, there can be no assurance that, as TI’s business expands into new areas, TI will be able to independently develop the technology, software or know-how necessary to conduct its business or that it can do so without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. TI may have to rely increasingly on licensed technology from others. To the extent that TI relies on licenses from others, there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain all of the licenses it desires in the future on terms it considers reasonable or at all. 

 

A Decline in Demand in Certain End-User Markets Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Demand for TI’s Products and Results of Operations. 

 

TI’s customer base includes companies in a wide range of industries, but TI generates a significant amount of revenue from sales to customers in the telecommunications and computer-related industries. Within these industries, a large portion of TI revenue is generated by the sale of analog integrated circuits and digital signal processors to customers in the cellular phone, personal computer and communications infrastructure markets. Decline in one or several of these end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for TI’s products and its results of operations. 

 

TI’s Global Manufacturing, Design and Sales Activities Subject It to Risks Associated with Legal, Political, Economic or Other Changes. 

 

TI operates in more than 25 countries worldwide, and in 2003 more than 80 percent of its revenue came from sales to locations outside the United States. Operating internationally exposes TI to changes in export controls and other laws or policies, as well as the general political and economic conditions, security risks, health conditions and possible disruptions in transportation networks, of the various countries in which it operates, which could result in an adverse effect on TI’s business operations in such countries and its results of operations. Also, as discussed in more detail on pages 19 and 54 of TI’s 2003 annual report to stockholders, TI uses forward currency exchange contracts to minimize the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the company’s non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures. Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which TI transacts business, the remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on TI’s non-U.S. business. 

 

The Loss of or Significant Curtailment of Purchases by Any of TI’s Largest Customers Could Adversely Affect TI’s Results of Operations. 

 

While TI generates revenue from thousands of customers worldwide, the loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by one or more of its top customers including curtailments due to a change in the design or manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers, or the timing of customer inventory adjustments may adversely affect TI’s results of operations. 

 

TI’s Performance Depends on the Availability of Raw Materials, Critical Manufacturing Equipment and Third-Party Manufacturing Services. 

 

Limited or delayed access to key raw materials used in the manufacturing process or critical manufacturing equipment could adversely impact TI’s results of operations. Additionally, the inability to timely implement new manufacturing technologies or install manufacturing equipment could adversely affect TI’s results of operations. TI subcontracts a portion of its wafer fabrication and assembly and testing of its integrated circuits. TI depends on a limited number of third parties to perform these 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

functions. TI does not have long-term contracts with all of these third parties. Reliance on these third parties involves risks, including possible shortages of capacity in periods of high demand. 

 

TI’s Continued Success Depends in Part on Its Ability to Retain and Recruit a Sufficient Number of Qualified Employees in a Competitive Environment. 

 

TI’s continued success depends in part on the retention and recruitment of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel. Experienced personnel in the electronics industry are in high demand and competition for their skills is intense. There can be no assurance that TI will be able to successfully retain and recruit the key personnel that it requires. 

 

Fluctuations in the Market Values of the Company’s Investments and in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect TI’s Results of Operations. 

 

TI has investments of various types and maturities. TI may recognize in earnings the decline in the value of its investments. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of the company’s investments and interest rates, see the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” on pages 54 and 55 in TI’s 2003 annual report to stockholders. Furthermore, TI’s equity investments in both private companies and publicly traded companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. 

 

Available Information 

 

TI files annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by TI at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. The SEC maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. TI’s filings are also available to the public at the web site maintained by the SEC, http://www.sec.gov. 

 

TI makes available, free of charge, through its investor relations web site its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Also available through the TI investor relations web site are reports filed by TI’s directors and executive officers on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports. The URL for TI’s investor relations web site is www.ti.com/ir. 

 

Available on TI’s web site at www.ti.com/corporategovernance are: (i) the company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines; (ii) charters (Statements of Responsibilities) for the Audit, Compensation, Governance and Nominating, and Stockholder Relations and Public Policy Committees of its board of directors; (iii) the company’s Code of Business Conduct; and (iv) the company’s Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers. Stockholders may request copies of these documents by writing to P.O. Box 660199, MS 8657, Dallas, Texas, 75266-0199, Attention: Investor Relations. 
