ITEM 1. Business. 

 

General Information 

 

Texas Instruments Incorporated (“TI” or the “company,” including subsidiaries except where the context indicates otherwise) is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and has manufacturing, design or sales operations in more than 25 countries. TI’s largest geographic markets are in the United States, Asia, Japan and Europe. TI has been in operation since 1930. 

 

The financial information with respect to TI’s business segments and operations outside the United States, which is contained in the note to the financial statements captioned “Business Segment and Geographic Area Data” on pages 33 through 36 of TI’s 2002 annual report to stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such annual report. 

 

Semiconductor 

 

TI is a global semiconductor company and a leading designer and supplier of digital signal processors and analog integrated circuits, the engines driving the digitization of electronics. Digital signal processors and analog integrated circuits enable a wide range of new products and features for TI’s more than 30,000 customers in commercial, industrial and consumer markets. 

 

TI also is a world leader in the design and manufacturing of other semiconductor products. Those products include standard logic devices, application-specific integrated circuits, reduced instruction-set computing microprocessors, microcontrollers and digital imaging devices. 

 

The semiconductor business comprised 83% of TI’s 2002 revenue. TI’s semiconductor products are used in a diverse range of electronic systems, including cellular telephones, personal computers, servers, communications infrastructure equipment, digital cameras, digital audio players, motor controls, automobiles and digital imaging systems, including projector and television systems. Products are sold to original-equipment manufacturers (OEM), original-design manufacturers (ODM), contract manufacturers and distributors. An OEM designs and sells under its own brand products that it has manufactured or contracted others to manufacture for it. An ODM designs and manufacturers products for others to sell under their brands. TI’s semiconductor patent portfolio has been established as an ongoing contributor to semiconductor revenue. In 2002, sales to distributors accounted for approximately 27% of semiconductor revenue. The Nokia group of companies accounted in 2002 for 12% of TI’s revenue. 

 

The semiconductor market is intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and pricing pressures, and requires high rates of investment. TI faces strong competition in all of its semiconductor product lines. The rapid pace of change and technological breakthroughs constantly create new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups, which can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. In digital signal processors, TI competes with a number of large and small companies, both U.S.-based and international. New product development capabilities, applications support, software knowledge and advanced semiconductor process technology are the primary competitive factors in this business. 

 

The market for analog integrated circuits is highly fragmented. TI competes with a number of large and small companies, both U.S.-based and international. Primary competitive factors in this business are the availability of innovative designs and designers, a broad range of process technologies and applications support and, particularly in the standard products area, price. 

 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Other TI Businesses 

 

In addition to semiconductors, TI has two other segments. The largest, representing 11% of TI’s 2002 revenue, is Sensors & Controls. This business sells sensors, electrical and electronic controls and radio-frequency identification systems into automotive and industrial markets. Typically the top supplier in targeted product areas, Sensors & Controls faces strong multinational and regional competitors. The primary competitive factors in this business are product reliability, manufacturing costs and engineering expertise. The products of the business are sold to OEMs and distributors. 

 

Educational & Productivity Solutions (E&PS) represents 6% of TI’s 2002 revenue and is a leading supplier of graphing and other educational calculators. This business sells primarily through retailers and to schools through instructional dealers. TI’s principal competitors in this business are U.S.- and Japan-based companies. Technology expertise, price and infrastructure for education and market understanding are primary competitive factors in this business. 

 

Acquisitions and Divestitures 

 

From time to time TI considers acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen its business portfolio. TI may effect one or more of these transactions at such time or times as it determines to be appropriate. In the second quarter of 2002, TI completed its acquisition of Condat AG, Berlin, a developer of wireless communication software and platforms for mobile business applications, for a purchase price of approximately $87 million. 

 

Backlog 

 

The dollar amount of backlog of orders believed by TI to be firm was $1057 million as of December 31, 2002 and $1036 million as of December 31, 2001. Backlog orders are, under certain circumstances, subject to cancellation. A substantial number of orders are shipped during the same quarter in which they are received. Accordingly, the company believes that its backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of revenue for any future period. 

 

Raw Materials 

 

TI purchases materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers. The materials, parts and supplies essential to TI’s business are generally available at present and TI believes that such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future. 

 

Patents and Trademarks 

 

TI owns many patents in the United States and other countries. The company has developed a strong, broad-based patent portfolio. TI also has several agreements with other companies involving license rights and anticipates that other licenses may be negotiated in the future. TI does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent license, although taken as a whole, the rights of TI and the products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to TI’s business. 

 

TI owns trademarks that are used in the conduct of its business. These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which are “Texas Instruments” and TI’s corporate monogram. 

 

Research and Development 

 

TI’s research and development expense was $1619 million in 2002, compared with $1598 million in 2001 and $1747 million in 2000. Included is a charge for the 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

value of acquisition-related purchased in-process research and development of $1 million in 2002, zero in 2001, and $112 million in 2000. 

 

Seasonality 

 

TI’s revenue and operating results are subject to some seasonal variation. In particular, E&PS is subject to seasonal variation, experiencing its strongest revenue and operating results in the second and third quarters as retailers stock for the back-to-school season. 

 

Employees 

 

At December 31, 2002, the company had 34,589 employees. 

 

Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results of Operations 

 

You should read the following cautionary statements in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of TI’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings. These cautionary statements are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect the financial condition and results of operations of TI and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to companies with broad international operations, such as TI. Like other companies, TI is susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and performance of TI or its customers. Similarly, the price of TI’s securities is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in TI’s results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community and other factors beyond TI’s control. 

 

Further Weakening or Delayed Recovery in the Semiconductor Market May Adversely Affect TI’s Performance. 

 

TI’s semiconductor business represents its largest business segment and the principal source of its revenue. The semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns. After strong growth in 1999 and 2000, the semiconductor market declined significantly in 2001 and grew only slightly in 2002. Further weakening or delayed recovery in the semiconductor market could adversely affect TI’s results of operations and have an adverse effect on the market price of its securities. In particular, TI’s strategic focus in this business is on the development and marketing of digital signal processors and analog integrated circuits. The results of TI’s operations may be adversely affected in the future if demand for digital signal processors or analog integrated circuits decreases or if these markets or key end-equipment markets such as telecommunications and computers grow at a significantly slower pace than expected by management. 

 

TI’s Margins May Vary over Time. 

 

TI’s profit margins may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in its shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of, its inventory and shifts in its product mix. In addition, the highly competitive market environment in which the company operates might adversely affect pricing for the company’s products. Because TI owns most of its manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of the company’s operating costs are fixed. These costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or the company’s utilization of its manufacturing capacity, and can adversely affect profit margins as a result. 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

The Technology Industry Is Characterized by Rapid Technological Change That Requires TI to Develop New Technologies and Products. 

 

TI’s results of operations depend in part upon its ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological environment. TI requires significant capital to develop new technologies and products to meet changing customer demands that, in turn, may result in shortened product lifecycles. Moreover, expenditures for technology and product development are generally made before the commercial viability for such developments can be assured. As a result, there can be no assurance that TI will successfully develop and market these new products, that the products TI does develop and market will be well received by customers or that TI will realize a return on the capital expended to develop such products. 

 

TI Faces Substantial Competition That Requires TI to Respond Rapidly to Product Development and Pricing Pressures. 

 

TI faces intense technological and pricing competition in the markets in which it operates. TI expects that the level of this competition will increase in the future from large, established semiconductor and related product companies, as well as from emerging companies serving niche markets also served by TI. Certain of TI’s competitors possess sufficient financial, technical and management resources to develop and market products that may compete favorably against those products of TI that currently offer technological and/or price advantages over competitive products. Competition results in price and product development pressures, which may result in reduced profit margins and lost business opportunities in the event that TI is unable to match price declines or technological, product, applications support, software or manufacturing advances of its competitors. 

 

TI’s Performance Depends in Part upon Its Ability to Enforce Its Intellectual Property Rights and to Develop or License New Intellectual Property. 

 

TI benefits from royalties generated from various license agreements that will generally be in effect through the year 2005. Access to worldwide markets depends in part on the continued strength of TI’s intellectual property portfolio. Future royalty revenue depends on the strength of TI’s portfolio and enforcement efforts, and on the sales and financial stability of TI’s licensees. Additionally, the consolidation of TI’s licensees may negatively affect TI’s royalty revenue. TI actively enforces and protects its intellectual property rights, but there can be no assurance that TI’s efforts will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation or improper use of the protected technology. Moreover, there can be no assurance that, as TI’s business expands into new areas, TI will be able to independently develop the technology, software or know-how necessary to conduct its business or that it can do so without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. TI may have to rely increasingly on licensed technology from others. To the extent that TI relies on licenses from others, there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain all of the licenses it desires in the future on terms it considers reasonable or at all. 

 

A Decline in Demand in Certain End-User Markets Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Demand for TI’s Products and Results of Operations. 

 

TI’s customer base includes companies in a wide range of industries, but TI generates a significant amount of revenue from sales to customers in the telecommunications and computer-related industries. Within these industries, a large portion of TI revenue is generated by the sale of digital signal processors and analog integrated circuits to customers in the cellular phone, personal computer and communications infrastructure markets. Decline in one or several of these end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for TI’s products and its results of operations. 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

TI’s Global Manufacturing, Design and Sales Activities Subject It to Risks Associated with Legal, Political, Economic or Other Changes. 

 

TI operates in more than 25 countries worldwide, and in 2002 more than 76% of its revenue came from sales to locations outside the United States. Operating internationally exposes TI to changes in export controls and other laws or policies, as well as the general economic conditions, security risks and possible disruptions in transportation networks, of the various countries in which it operates, which could result in an adverse effect on TI’s business operations in such countries and its results of operations. Also, as discussed in more detail on pages 19 and 49 of TI’s 2002 annual report to stockholders, TI uses forward currency exchange contracts to minimize the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the company’s non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures. Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which TI transacts business, the remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on TI’s non-U.S. business. 

 

The Loss of or Significant Curtailment of Purchases by Any of TI’s Largest Customers Could Adversely Affect TI’s Results of Operations. 

 

While TI generates revenue from thousands of customers worldwide, the loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by one or more of its top customers including curtailments due to a change in the design or manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers, or the timing of customer inventory adjustments may adversely affect TI’s results of operations. 

 

TI’s Performance Depends on the Availability of Raw Materials and Critical Manufacturing Equipment. 

 

Limited or delayed access to key raw materials used in the manufacturing process or critical manufacturing equipment could adversely impact TI’s results of operations. Additionally, the inability to timely implement new manufacturing technologies or install manufacturing equipment could adversely affect TI’s results of operations. 

 

TI’s Continued Success Depends in Part on Its Ability to Retain and Recruit a Sufficient Number of Qualified Employees in a Competitive Environment. 

 

TI’s continued success depends in part on the retention and recruitment of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel. Experienced personnel in the electronics industry are in high demand and competition for their skills is intense. There can be no assurance that TI will be able to successfully retain and recruit the key personnel that it requires. 

 

Fluctuations in the Market Values of the Company’s Investments and in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect TI’s Results of Operations. 

 

TI has investments of various types and maturities. Most investments are equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility. TI may recognize in earnings the decline in the value of its investments. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of the company’s investments and interest rates, see the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” on pages 49 and 50 in TI’s 2002 annual report to stockholders. Furthermore, TI’s equity investments in both publicly traded companies and private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Available Information 

 

TI files annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by TI at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. The SEC maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. TI’s filings are also available to the public at the web site maintained by the SEC, http://www.sec.gov. 

 

TI makes available, free of charge, through its investor relations web site its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The URL for TI’s investor relations web site is www.ti.com/ir. 
