ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Items 1 and 3 of this 10-K contain forward-looking statements concerning our
development efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and
litigation. These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including
those discussed throughout this document as well as under "Factors Affecting
Future Operating Results" in Item 7. Forward looking statements can often be
identified by the use of forward looking words, such as "may," "will," "could,"
"should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan,"
"intend," "project," or other similar words.

General

Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) designs, develops and markets complete
programmable logic solutions, including advanced integrated circuits (ICs),
software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as cores of logic
design services and field engineering support. Our programmable logic devices
(PLDs) include field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable
logic devices (CPLDs). These devices are standard products that our customers
program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide
high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers
primarily in the telecommunications, networking, computing, industrial, and
consumer markets. Our products are sold globally through a network of
independent sales representatives, distributors, and to original equipment
manufacturers ("OEMs").

Competitive pressures compel manufacturers of electronic systems to accelerate
their products' introduction to market. Customer requirements for improved
functionality, performance, reliability and lower cost are addressed through the
use of components that integrate ever larger numbers of logic gates onto a
single integrated circuit. Such integration often results in greater speed,
smaller die size, lower power consumption and reduced costs. The rapid
proliferation of the Internet and wireless communications continues to fuel the
demand for faster integrated circuits. At the same time, tremendous pressure is
placed on electronic equipment manufacturers' product life cycles. Due to their
functionality and reprogrammability, our PLDs enable electronic equipment
manufacturers to effectively respond to these evolving market trends.

We were organized in California in February 1984 and in November 1985 were
reorganized to incorporate our research and development limited partnership. In
April 1990, we reincorporated in Delaware. Our corporate facilities and
executive offices are located at 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, California 95124
and our website is www.xilinx.com.

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. For ease of presentation,
March 31 has been utilized as the fiscal year-end for all financial statement
captions. Fiscal 2001 ended on March 31, 2001 while fiscal 2000 and 1999 ended
on April 1, 2000 and April 3, 1999, respectively.

Products

Integral to the future success of our business is the timely introduction of new
products which address customer requirements and compete effectively on the
basis of price, functionality, and performance. Xilinx programmable logic
solutions help minimize risks for manufacturers of electronic equipment by
shortening the time required to develop products and introduce them to market.
Customers can design and verify their unique circuits in Xilinx programmable
devices much faster than they could by choosing traditional methods such as
mask-programmed, fixed logic gate arrays. Moreover, because Xilinx devices are
standard parts that need only to be programmed, customers are not required to
wait for prototypes or pay large non-recurring engineering costs. Xilinx silicon
products, software solutions, and technical support make up the total solution
delivered by Xilinx. The software component of this solution is critical to the
success of every design project. Our Software Solutions provide powerful tools
which make designing with programmable logic easy. Push button design flows,
integrated on-line help, multimedia tutorials, plus high performance automatic
and auto-interactive tools, help designers achieve optimum results. We offer the
industry's broadest array of programmable logic technology and EDA integration
options allowing us to deliver unparalleled design flexibility. Xilinx has also
developed a technology that enables the hardware in Xilinx-based systems to be
upgraded remotely over any kind of network including the Internet even after the
equipment has been shipped to a customer. Such Xilinx Online Upgradable Systems
allow equipment

                                       3
<PAGE>

manufacturers to remotely add new features and capabilities to installed systems
or repair problems without having to physically exchange hardware.

     Programmable Logic Devices

We currently classify our product offerings into four categories by
manufacturing process technology. Base products consist of our mature product
families that are currently manufactured on technologies of 0.6-micron and
greater; this includes the XC3000, XC3100, and XC4000 families. Mainstream
products are currently manufactured on 0.35 and 0.5-micron technologies and
include the XC4000E, XC4000EX, XC4000XL, XC5200, XC9500, XC9500XL, Spartan(TM)
and CoolRunner(TM) product lines. Advanced products include our newest
technologies manufactured on 0.25-micron and smaller, which include the
XC4000XV, XC4000XLA, XC9500XV, SpartanXL.(TM), Spartan-II(TM), Virtex(TM),
Virtex-E(TM), and Virtex-II(TM) product lines. Support products make up the
remainder of our product offerings and include configuration solutions,
software, design services, and support.

     Virtex-II(TM) Platform FPGAs:

The Virtex-II Platform FPGA family, introduced in January 2001, is a complete
programmable solution that allows digital system designers to rapidly implement
a single-chip solution with densities from 40,000 up to 10 million system gates.
The Virtex-II family is the first Platform FPGA to incorporate the
IP-Immersion(TM) fabric that not only provide the ability to integrate a variety
of soft intellectual property (IP), but also has the capability of embedding
hard IP cores such as processors and Gigabit serial I/Os in future Virtex-II
families schedule for late 2001. The Virtex-II solution was developed to enable
rapid development of data communications and digital signal processing (DSP)
systems. The unique features of the revolutionary Virtex-II architecture make it
ideal for optical networking products, storage area networks (SANs),
voice-over-Internet-protocol(VoIP), video broadcasting, medical imaging,
cellular base-stations, and Internet infrastructure products. The Virtex-II
devices will be delivered on 0.15-micron process technology.

     Virtex(TM) FPGAs:

The Virtex-EM Extended Memory (Virtex-EM) FPGA, introduced in March 2000,
extends the Virtex-E architecture. The Virtex-EM FPGA family consists of two
devices that have a high RAM-to-logic gate ratio, over 1 million bits of block
RAM, that is targeted for specific applications such as gigabit-per-second
network switches and high definition graphics. The Virtex-EM devices are the
first FPGAs to be manufactured using an advanced copper process.

The Virtex-E(TM) FPGA family, introduced in September 1999, includes a two
million system gate device and supports twice the system-gate density and has a
50 percent higher I/O performance than the original Virtex(TM) FPGAs. The
Virtex-E(TM) family consists of 11 members, from 50,000 system gates to 3.2
million system gates. The Virtex-E(TM) FPGAs, delivering new performance and
density attributes that were only previously addressed by ASIC solutions, are
targeted for next generation networking and telecommunication applications.
Virtex-E(TM) FPGAs with 1.8-volt operation are the first programmable logic
devices delivered on 0.18-micron process technology, which was jointly developed
by Taiwan's United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and Xilinx. The improved
process directly contributes to a substantial performance gain. The Virtex-E(TM)
family also represents the industry's first programmable logic architecture with
210 million transistors on a single device.

The Virtex(TM) FPGA series, announced in October 1998, includes the industry's
first million-gate FPGA. Nine Virtex(TM) devices are currently in production.
The Virtex(TM) devices with 2.5-volt operation are found in traditional
programmable logic applications such as networking or telecommunications, and in
applications like storage area networks, routers, high end servers, switching
equipment, cellular base stations, and High Definition Television (HDTV)
infrastructure. The Virtex(TM) devices range from 50,000 to 1,000,000 system
gate densities with 200 MHz chip-to-chip performance and offer system-level
integration capabilities. The Virtex(TM) family delivers the first fully
programmable alternative to high density system-level Application Specific
Integrated Circuits (ASIC) design.

                                       4
<PAGE>

     XC4000 FPGAs:

The XC4000 family, introduced in 1990, was the first FPGA offering on-board
distributed RAM. The XC4000 became the industry standard and was the fastest
growing programmable logic family in history until the Virtex family was
introduced in October 1998.

The XC4000XL family has 11 members shipping in volume ranging in density from
2,000 to 180,000 system gates. The XC4000XLA family expands on the XC4000XL
architecture with reduced power consumption and improved performance. The
XC4000XLA family has eight members shipping in volume and ranges in density from
30,000 to 180,000 system gates. The XC4000XV is a 2.5-volt FPGA family that
utilizes 0.25-micron technology. The family has four members with up to 500,000
system gates. The XC4000XV features system performance of over 100 MHz while
minimizing power consumption. The 2.5-volt XC4000XV family extends and builds on
the successes of the 5-volt XC4000 and the 3-volt XC4000XL series.

     Spartan(TM) FPGAs:

The Xilinx Spartan(TM) and SpartanXL(TM) FPGA families are derived from the
XC4000 architecture. These families feature low-cost ASIC replacement with
densities ranging from 5,000 to 40,000 system gates. In January 2000, we
announced the Spartan-II(TM) family, our newest generation of high-volume FPGAs,
which is based on the Virtex architecture. Spartan-II(TM) devices are designed
to be low cost programmable replacements for ASICs and application specific
standard products (ASSPs). New features in the Spartan-II(TM) family address a
larger range of cost-sensitive high-volume applications and open up new consumer
market opportunities for programmable logic.

     CPLDs:

The XC9500 and XC9500XL families offer in-system programmability for 5.0-volt
and 3.3-volt systems, respectively. The XC9500XV is a 2.5-volt in-system
programmable CPLD family with significantly reduced power consumption.

In August 1999 we acquired Philips Semiconductors' line of low power complex
programmable logic devices (CPLDs) called the CoolRunner(R) family of devices.
The CoolRunner line is the first family of CPLD products to combine very low
power with high speed, high density, and high I/O counts in a single device.
CoolRunner(R) CPLDs also use far less dynamic power during actual operation
compared to conventional CPLDs, an important feature for today's mobile
computing applications.

     Software, Cores & Support

We offer complete software design tool solutions which enable customers to
implement their design specifications into our PLDs. These software design tools
combine a powerful technology with a flexible, easy to use graphical interface
to help achieve the best possible designs within each customer's project
schedule, regardless of the designer's experience level.

We offer three complementary software design tool solutions. Xilinx Foundation
Series software provides designers with a complete, ready-to-use design solution
based on industry-standard hardware description languages (HDLs). We offer this
fully integrated software solution for those customers new to designing with
PLDs or desiring a low cost approach. The Foundation ISE(TM) (Integrated
Synthesis Environment) software, introduced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year
2001, is Xilinx's next generation design environment. Foundation ISE software
provides a design environment which integrates the HDL design flow, synthesis,
and optimization to ensure a comprehensive integrated design flow for designers
to increase productivity. The Alliance Series is tailored for designers who want
maximum flexibility to integrate their programmable logic design into their
existing EDA environment and methodology. With interfaces to over fifty EDA
vendors, the Alliance Series Software allows users to select tools with which
they are most familiar, thereby increasing their productivity and shortening
their products design cycles.

Xilinx offers two Web-based Design solutions giving designers the ability to
engage in digital design activities on-line using either our application servers
or download design and implementation software modules for use in their own
design environment. The WebFITTER is a free Web-Based design tool that

                                       5
<PAGE>

allows system designers to evaluate their designs using our XC9500/XL/XV and
CoolRunner Series CPLDs. WebPACK(TM) solutions are a collection of free
downloadable software modules. Customers can register and download any of the
WebPACK(TM) modules to complete designs using the Xilinx XC9500/XL/XV,
CoolRunner Series CPLD, the entire Spartan-II FPGA family designs and the
300,000 system gate Virtex XCV300E FPGA.

We also offer intellectual property, cores of logic, for commonly used complex
functions such as digital signal processing (DSP), bus interfaces, processors,
and peripheral interfaces. Using logic cores, available from Xilinx and third
party AllianceCORE partners, customers can shorten development time, reduce
design risk and obtain superior performance for their designs. Additionally, our
CORE Generator system allows customers to implement intellectual property cores
into our PLDs. It offers a simple user interface, complete cataloging of
available cores, easy selection of parameter-based cores optimized for our
FPGAs, and features an interface to third-party system level DSP design tools.
Further, Xilinx's IP Center Internet portal offers customers the ability to
purchase on line the latest intellectual property cores and reference design via
Smart Search for faster access.

To extend our customers' technical capabilities and accelerate our customers'
design time in the race to market, we offer Xilinx Global Services which
consists of education, product, and design services along with the
support.xilinx.com online. At Support.xilinx.com, customers can find training
courses, discussion forums access to an experienced Xilinx team for assistance
in troubleshooting and design issues. To grow the emerging home networking
market, we also introduced the Xilinx eSP website in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2001. This web portal is a comprehensive resource offering designers
information such as reference designs and intellectual property. It is the
industry's first web portal dedicated to accelerating the design and development
of consumer products based upon emerging standards and protocols.

Our software design tools operate on desktop computer platforms, including
personal computers with Microsoft Windows '95, '98, 2000, and NT operating
systems, and on workstations from IBM, HP and Sun Microsystems.

The net revenues from Software, Cores & Support were $21.2 million, $15.3
million, and $13.0 million in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.

Research and Development

Our research and development activities are primarily directed towards the
design of new integrated circuits, the development of new software design tools
and cores of logic, the development of advanced semiconductor manufacturing
processes, and ongoing cost reductions and performance improvements in existing
products. Our primary areas of focus have been: to introduce the industry's
first 10 million system gate programmable system solution (Virtex-II Platform
FPGA devices), a low-cost ASIC replacement FPGA solution (Spartan-II devices),
development of CPLD products (XC9500/XL/XV & CoolRunner families), and releasing
new versions of software design tools (Foundation Series ISE software) and cores
of logic.

Our research and development challenge is to continue to develop new products
that create cost-effective solutions for customers. In fiscal 2001, 2000, and
1999, our research and development expenses were $213.2 million, $123.6 million,
and $90.9 million, respectively. Excluding a $4.5 million amortization expense
of deferred stock compensation for acquiring RocketChips in fiscal 2001, the
research and development expenditures were $208.7 million in fiscal 2001. We
expect we will continue to make substantial investments in research and
development. We believe technical leadership is essential to our future success
and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and
development effort. However, there can be no assurance that any of our research
and development efforts will be successful, timely or cost-effective.

Marketing and Sales

We sell our products through several industrial distributors, direct sales to
manufacturers by independent sales representative firms, sales through
franchised domestic distributors, and sales through foreign distributors. In
order to provide service to existing customers and reach potential customers, we
also utilize a direct sales management organization and field applications
engineers (FAEs). Our independent

                                       6
<PAGE>

representatives generally address larger OEM customers and act as a direct sales
force, while distributors serve the balance of our customer base. Our sales and
customer support personnel support all channels and consult with customers about
their plans, ensuring that the right software and devices are selected at the
beginning of a customer's project.

Avnet, Inc. and the Memec Group distribute our products worldwide and Nu
Horizons Electronics provides additional regional sales coverage. From time to
time, we may add or terminate distributors from our selling organization as we
deem appropriate given the level of business. We believe distributors provide a
cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers. Since our PLDs are
standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to
distributors as compared to custom gate arrays, and they simplify the
requirements for distributor technical support.

We changed our accounting method during fiscal 1999 for recognizing revenue on
all shipments to international distributors. While we previously deferred
revenue on shipments to domestic distributors until the product was sold to the
end user, we recognized revenue upon shipment to international distributors, net
of estimated reserves for returns and allowances. Following the accounting
change, revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred
until the products are sold to the end customer. Distributors have certain
rights of return and price protection privileges on unsold product until the
product is sold to the end customers.

Backlog and Customers

As of March 31, 2001, our backlog of purchase orders scheduled for delivery
within the next three months was $126 million, after adjustments for estimated
discounts. Backlog as of March 31, 2000 was $174.3 million, after adjustments
for estimated discounts. Backlog amounts for both years include orders to
distributors, which may receive price adjustments upon sale to end customers.
Also, orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery
schedule or to cancellation at the option of the purchaser without significant
penalty. Accordingly, although useful for scheduling production, backlog as of
any particular date may not be a reliable measure of revenues for any future
period.

No end customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues in fiscal years 2001,
2000, or 1999. Approximately 27%, 27%, and 20% of net revenues were recognized
through our largest domestic distributor in 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.
A second domestic distributor accounted for approximately 24%, 24%, and 17% of
net revenues in fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. On a consolidated
basis, at March 31, 2001, two distributors accounted for 44.1% and 28.6% of
worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2001. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 for Concentration of Credit Risk; see also Note
11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for geographic sales
information.)

Wafer Fabrication

We do not directly manufacture processed wafers used for our products. Over the
last several years, the majority of our wafer purchases have been manufactured
by United Microelectronics Corporation, (UMC), UMC affiliated companies
including our former joint venture, USIC, Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko), and
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC). Precise terms with respect to
the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by
the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between
Xilinx and these wafer foundry partners.

Our strategy is to focus our resources on creating new integrated circuits and
software design tools and on market development rather than on wafer
fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry
relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from both our main suppliers as
well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. As a result, we
have entered into agreements with UMC and Seiko as discussed below.

Xilinx, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and other parties entered into
a joint venture to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as
United Silicon Inc. (USIC). (See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8.) We made a total cumulative investment of $107.1 million
in USIC. In January 2000, as a result of the merger of USIC into UMC, our equity
position in USIC was converted into shares of UMC which are publicly traded on
the Taiwan Stock Exchange. We retain

                                                                               7
<PAGE>

monthly guaranteed wafer capacity rights in UMC as long as we retain a
percentage of our UMC shares. (See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8.)

In fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with Seiko Epson. (See
Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.) This agreement
was amended in fiscal 1998 and provided for an advance to Seiko Epson for $150.0
million. In conjunction with the agreement, $60.0 million was paid in fiscal
1997 and an additional $90.0 million was paid in fiscal 1998. Repayment of this
advance is made in the form of wafer deliveries, which began during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1998 and ended during the second quarter of fiscal 2001.
Specific wafer pricing was in U.S. dollars and was based upon the prices of
similar wafers manufactured by other, specifically identified, leading-edge
foundry suppliers.

In fiscal 2001, we signed a Licensing and Marketing Agreement (LMA) with
International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), giving us the right to
purchase certain specified amounts of wafers from IBM on a monthly basis.
Presently, we are not purchasing a material number of wafers from IBM.

Sort, Assembly and Test

Wafers purchased by us are sorted by the wafer foundry, independent sort
subcontractors or by us. Sorted wafers are assembled by subcontractors in
facilities in South East Asian countries. During the assembly process, the
wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various
package types. Following assembly, the packaged units are tested by independent
test subcontractors or by Xilinx personnel at our San Jose or Dublin, Ireland
facilities.

Patents and Licenses

Through March 31, 2001, we held over 545 issued United States patents and we
maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of
software, IC architecture and design. We intend to vigorously protect our
intellectual property. We believe that failure to enforce our patents or to
effectively protect our trade secrets could have an adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may incur
litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights against third
parties. There is no assurance that any such litigation would be successful.
(See Legal Proceedings in Item 3 and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8.)

We have acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant object code
sublicenses to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed
with our software design tools. In addition, we have licensed certain software
for internal use in product design.

Employees

Xilinx's employee population grew 38% during the past year. As of March 31,
2001, Xilinx had 2,678 employees compared to 1,939 at the end of the prior year.
None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced
any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations.

Competition

Our PLDs compete in the logic industry. The industries in which we compete are
intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change,
product obsolescence, and continuous price erosion. We expect increased
competition, both from our primary competitors, Altera Corporation and Lattice
Semiconductor Corporation and from a number of new companies that may enter our
market. We believe that important competitive factors in the programmable logic
industry include:

 .    product pricing;
 .    product performance, reliability, power consumption, and density;
 .    the adaptability of products to specific applications;
 .    ease of use and functionality of software design tools;
 .    functionality of predefined cores of logic; and
 .    the ability to provide timely customer service and support.

                                                                               8
<PAGE>

Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction
of new product architectures which address high volume, low cost applications as
well as high performance, leading-edge density applications. In addition, we
anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower
the manufacturing cost for established products. However, we cannot assure that
we will be successful in achieving these strategies.

Our major sources of competition are comprised of several elements:

 .    providers of high density programmable logic products characterized by
     FPGA-type architectures;
 .    providers of high volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacement for
     ASICs and application specific standard products (ASSPs).;
 .    providers of high speed, low density CPLD devices;
 .    the manufacturers of custom gate arrays;
 .    providers of competitive software development tools; and
 .    other providers of new or emerging programmable logic products.

We compete with high density programmable logic suppliers on the basis of device
performance, the ability to deliver complete solutions to customers, device
power consumption, and customer support by taking advantage of the primary
characteristics of our PLD product offerings which include: flexibility, high
speed implementation, quick time-to-market, and system level capabilities. We
compete with ASIC manufacturers on the basis of lower design costs, shorter
development schedules, and reduced inventory risk and field upgradability. The
primary attributes of ASICs are high density, high speed, and low production
costs in high volumes. We continue to develop lower cost architectures intended
to narrow the gap between current ASIC production costs (in high volumes) and
PLD production costs. As PLDs have increased in density and performance and
decreased in cost due to the advanced manufacturing processes, they have become
more directly competitive with ASICs. With the introduction of our Spartan
family, which is Xilinx's low cost programmable replacement for ASICs, we seek
to grow by directly competing with other companies in the ASIC segment. Many of
the companies in the ASIC segment have substantially greater financial,
technical, and marketing resources than Xilinx. Consequently, there can be no
assurance that we will be successful in competing in the ASIC segment.
Competition among PLD suppliers and manufacturers of new or emerging
programmable logic products is based primarily on price, performance, design,
customer support, software utility, and the ability to deliver complete
solutions to customers. Some of our current or potential competitors have
substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and
technical resources than we do. To the extent that our efforts to compete are
not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.

The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of companies to this
market. We recognize that different applications require different programmable
technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes, and products to
meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of
standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that
support the full range of integrated circuit products. We believe that
automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the PLD
segment.

Several companies, both large and small, have introduced products that compete
with ours or have announced their intention to enter the PLD segment. Some of
our competitors may possess innovative technology, which could prove superior to
our technology in certain applications. In addition, we anticipate potential
competition from suppliers of logic products based on new technologies. Some of
our current or potential competitors have substantially greater financial,
manufacturing, marketing and technical resources than we do. This additional
competition could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.

We could also face competition from our licensees. Under a license from us,
Lucent Technologies has rights to manufacture and market our XC3000 FPGA
products and also employ that technology to provide additional high density FPGA
products. Seiko Epson has rights to manufacture some of our products and market
them in Japan and Europe, but is not currently doing so. We granted a license to
use certain of our patents to Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). AMD produced certain
programmable logic devices under that license through its wholly owned
subsidiary, Vantis. In June 1999, AMD sold the Vantis subsidiary to Lattice
Semiconductor Corporation.

                                                                               9
<PAGE>

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Certain information regarding each of Xilinx's executive officers is set forth
below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name                    Age    Position                                                                     Officer
                                                                                                            Since
<S>                     <C>    <C>                                                                          <C>
Willem P. Roelandts     56     President and Chief Executive Officer                                        1996
Kris Chellam            50     Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer                   1998
Steven Haynes           50     Vice President, Worldwide Sales                                              1998
Randy Ong               51     Vice President, Worldwide Operations                                         2000
Dennis Segers           48     Senior Vice President and General Manager of Advanced Products Group         1995
Richard W. Sevcik       53     Senior Vice President, IP, Services and Software Group                       1997
Sandeep S. Vij          35     Vice President, Marketing and General Manager of General Products Division   1996
Evert A. Wolsheimer     46     Vice President, and General Manager of CPLD Division                         2000
</TABLE>

There are no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company.
On the Board of Directors, Mr. Vonderschmitt, Chairman of the Board, is the
brother-in-law of Mr. Sanda, Director.

Willem P. "Wim" Roelandts joined the Company in January 1996 as Chief Executive
Officer and a member of the Company's Board of Directors. In April 1996, he was
appointed to the additional position of President of the Company. Prior to
joining the Company, he served at Hewlett-Packard Company, a computer
manufacturer, as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Computer Systems
Organizations from August 1992 through January 1996 and as Vice President and
General Manager of the Network Systems Group from December 1990 through August
1992.

Kris Chellam joined the Company in July 1998 as Senior Vice President, Finance
and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Atmel
Corporation as Senior Vice President and General Manager of a product group from
March to July 1998 and as Vice President, Finance and Administration, and Chief
Financial Officer from September 1991 through March 1998. Mr. Chellam also
serves as a director of At Road Inc.

Steven Haynes joined the Company in 1987 as the Regional Sales Manager of the
Northeast region, was promoted to Area Sales Director in 1988, and was appointed
Vice President, North American Sales in 1995. In November 1998, he was promoted
and now holds the position of Vice President, Worldwide Sales.

Randy Ong joined the Company in 1990 as Senior Staff Engineer, and was promoted
to Vice President of Worldwide Operations in 1997. He has overall responsibility
for manufacturing, quality assurance, testing, reliability, and package
development for Xilinx programmable logic devices. He also oversees strategic
management of the Company's semiconductor foundry partners. He earned his
bachelor's and master's degrees in electrical engineering at the University of
California, Berkeley.

Dennis Segers joined the Company in January 1994 as Director of Strategic
Products and was promoted to Vice President and General Manager in November
1995. In April 1998, he was appointed Senior Vice President, and General Manager
of the Advanced Products Group. Mr. Segers is also a member of the Company's
Board of Directors.

Richard W. Sevcik joined the Company in April 1997 as Senior Vice President, IP,
Services and Software. He was at Hewlett-Packard Company for 10 years where,
from 1994 through 1996, he served as Group General Manager of the company's
Systems Technology Group and oversaw five divisions involved with product
development for servers, workstations, operating systems, microprocessors,
networking and security. In 1995 he was named Vice President. From 1992 to 1994,
he served as Group General Manager of Computer Systems and Servers and was
responsible for four divisions. Mr. Sevcik is also a member of the Company's
Board of Directors.

Sandeep S. Vij joined the Company in April 1996 as Director, FPGA Marketing and
was promoted to Vice President, Marketing in October 1996. In October 1997, he
was appointed to the additional position of

                                                                              10
<PAGE>

General Manager of the General Products Division. From 1990 until April 1996, he
served at Altera Corporation, a semiconductor manufacturer, where he most
recently served as the Product Marketing Manager of High Volume FPGAs.

Evert A. Wolsheimer joined the Company in 1991 as Vice President, Product
Technology, with responsibility for process technology, wafer foundry, assembly,
reliability, and product engineering. He was promoted to Vice President and
General Manager of the CPLD Division in 1997. He has served on the Board of
Directors of the Fabless Semiconductor Association (FSA) since 1997. Dr.
Wolsheimer received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Delft University of
Technology, The Netherlands.
