ITEM 1. BUSINESS

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Analog Devices, Inc. (Analog, ADI or the Company) is a world leader in the
design, manufacture and marketing of high-performance analog, mixed-signal and
digital signal processing (DSP) integrated circuits (ICs) used in signal
processing applications.

As of the end of fiscal 1999, approximately 40% of Analog's revenues came from
the communications market, making it the Company's largest and fastest growing
served market. Communications applications include wireless handsets and base
stations, as well as products used for high-speed access to the Internet,
including ICs used in ADSL and cable modems and central office networking
equipment.

Analog serves the PC market with products that monitor and manage power usage,
process signals used in flat panel displays and LCD projectors and enable PCs to
provide CD-quality audio. Analog also serves the high-end consumer market with
products used in digital cameras and camcorders, DVD players and surround sound
audio systems. Analog provides a broad array of products to the industrial
market, including products for automatic test equipment and for the digital
speed control of AC motors.

Analog's products are sold worldwide through a direct sales force, third-party
industrial distributors and independent sales representatives. The Company has
direct sales offices in 18 countries, including the United States. Approximately
46% of fiscal 1999 revenue came from customers in North America, while most of
the balance came from customers in Western Europe and the Far East.

The Company is headquartered near Boston, in Norwood, Massachusetts, and has
manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, California, North Carolina, Ireland,
the Philippines and Taiwan. Founded in 1965, Analog Devices employs
approximately 7,400 people worldwide. The Company's stock is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange under the symbol ADI and is included in the Standard &
Poor's 500 Index.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

Real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, images, speed and
acceleration are inherently analog in nature, consisting of continuously varying
information. This information can be detected and measured using analog sensors,
which represent real-world phenomena by generating continuously varying voltages
and currents. The signals from these sensors are initially processed using
analog methods, such as amplification, filtering and shaping. They are then
usually converted to digital form for input to a microprocessor, which is used
to manipulate, store or display the information. In many cases, the signals are
further processed after conversion to digital form using a technology called
"digital signal processing," or DSP. In addition, digital signals are frequently
converted to analog form to provide signals for functions such as analog
display, audio output or control. These manipulations and transformations are
known collectively as "real-world signal processing."

Significant advances in semiconductor technology in recent years have led to
substantial increases in the performance and functionality of ICs used in signal
processing applications. These advances include the ability to sense, receive,
condition, convert and transmit signals from analog phenomena, such as voice and
video images, and process these signals in both the analog and digital domain.
The analog circuitry portion of the IC is used for manipulating real-world
signals while still in analog form and for converting analog signals into
digital form (or vice versa), and the digital portion is used for further
processing analog signals subsequent to their conversion to digital form. The
convergence of computing and communications requires applications that
incorporate these functions and the Company's products are used as components in
equipment and systems to achieve higher performance and more efficient signal
processing.




                                       1
<PAGE>   3

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company is engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of a broad line
of high-performance ICs that incorporate analog, mixed-signal and digital signal
processing technologies that address a wide range of real-world signal
processing applications. The Company has a generic list of approximately 2,000
products, with the highest revenue product accounting for approximately 2% of
the Company's revenue for fiscal 1999. Many of the Company's products are
proprietary, while equivalents to other products are available from a limited
number of other suppliers. The Company also designs, manufactures and markets a
range of assembled products.

MARKETS AND APPLICATIONS

The following describes some of the characteristics of, and products supplied
to, each of the Company's major markets:

COMMUNICATIONS--The rapid development of broadband and wireless communications
infrastructure around the world combined with the development of the Internet
has created a rapidly growing market for the Company's products. Communications
technology involves the acquisition of analog signals that are converted from
analog to digital and digital to analog form as they are processed and
transmitted. ADI's expertise in combining analog and digital functionality on a
single chip has enabled the Company to develop products that fulfill the
technological challenges of this complex and rapidly expanding market space. The
need for ever higher speed and reduced power consumption, coupled with more
reliable, more bandwidth-efficient communications, is creating increasing demand
for the Company's products which are used in systems that include digital,
analog and mixed-signal processing capability. The products are used in the full
spectrum of signal processing for audio, data, image or video communication. In
broadband and wireless communication applications, the Company's products are
incorporated into data and digital subscriber line (DSL) modems, cellular
telephones, base station equipment and remote access servers.

COMPUTERS AND COMPUTER PERIPHERALS--Increased interface between users and the PC
through monitors, printers, scanners and audio devices and the increasing need
for power and thermal management capability in PCs have provided many
opportunities in the computer market. The Company's ability to integrate analog,
DSP and mixed-signal functionality on ICs has enabled ADI to supply many high
performance critical components required by PC manufacturers. The computer
industry requires smaller, lighter personal computers, creating increased demand
for high performance ICs to monitor power usage thereby allowing manufacturers
to use smaller batteries and extend battery life between charges. The Company
currently supplies a variety of ICs used in this market for functions such as
graphic displays, interfaces between PCs and peripherals such as modems and
printers, power and battery management, and enhanced audio input and output
capability for business and entertainment applications.

CONSUMER ELECTRONICS--The acquisition and display of signals combined with the
requirement for digital processing of these signals have allowed the Company to
combine analog and digital design capability to provide solutions that conform
to the rigorous cost, size and reliability constraints of the consumer
electronic market. The emergence of high-performance consumer products, such as
compact disc players, DVD players and digital camcorders and cameras, has led to
the need for high-performance system-level ICs with a high level of specific
functionality. The addition of monitoring and motor control devices on many
consumer products has also created new opportunities for the Company.

INDUSTRIAL--includes data acquisition systems, automatic process control
systems, robotics, environmental control systems and automatic test equipment
(ATE). These products generally require ICs that offer performance greater than
that available from commodity-level ICs, but generally do not have production
volumes that warrant custom or application-specific ICs. Combinations of analog
and mixed-signal ICs are usually employed to achieve the necessary
functionality, except in ATE applications where the high level of electronic
circuitry required per tester has created opportunities for the design of
system-level ICs.

INSTRUMENTATION--includes engineering, medical and scientific instruments. These
products are usually designed using the highest performance analog and
mixed-signal ICs available, where production volumes generally do not warrant
custom or application-specific ICs.

MILITARY/AEROSPACE--includes military, commercial avionics and space markets,
all of which require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and
reliability specifications. Nearly all of the Company's analog ICs can be
supplied in versions that meet appropriate military standards. In addition, many
products can be supplied to meet the standards required for broadcast satellites
and other commercial space applications. Most of the Company's products



                                       2
<PAGE>   4

sold in this market are derived from standard commercial grade ICs, although the
Company sometimes develops products expressly for military/aerospace
applications.

AUTOMOTIVE--Although the automotive market has historically been served with
low-cost, low-performance ICs, demand has emerged for higher performance devices
for a wide range of applications. In response, the Company is developing
products specifically for the automotive market. The Company supplies a
micromachined IC used as a crash sensor in airbag systems, which serves as an
alternative to an electromechanical sensor. The Company believes that other
micromachined devices derived from this product may be suitable for other
automotive applications, such as roll-over sensing, global positioning satellite
(GPS) automotive navigation systems, anti-lock brakes and "smart" suspension
systems and other applications including earthquake detectors and high-end
computer joysticks.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The markets served by Analog are characterized by rapid technological changes
and advances. Accordingly, the Company makes substantial investments in the
design and development of new products and processes, and for significant
improvement of existing products and processes. ADI incurred $257 million during
fiscal 1999 for the design, development and improvement of new and existing
products and processes, compared to $219 million and $196 million during fiscal
1998 and fiscal 1997, respectively.

In support of its research and development activities, the Company employs
hundreds of engineers involved in product and process development at several
design centers and manufacturing sites located throughout the world.

As of October 30, 1999, the Company owned approximately 550 U.S. patents and had
150 patent applications on file with the United States patent office. The
Company believes that while its patents may provide some advantage, its
competitive position is largely determined by such factors as the knowledge,
ability and experience of the Company's personnel, new product development,
market recognition and ongoing marketing efforts, customer service and technical
support.

IC TECHNOLOGY

Analog Technology

Analog IC technology has been the foundation of the Company's business for more
than 25 years, and the Company believes it is one of the world's largest
suppliers of analog ICs. The Company's analog ICs are primarily
high-performance, single-function devices. The majority of the Company's analog
IC product revenue is attributable to sales of data converters
(analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. Other analog IC
products offered by the Company include analog signal processing devices (such
as analog multipliers), voltage references and comparators. Over the past few
years the Company has been expanding its analog IC product offerings into
product areas where its focus was previously limited, principally interface
circuits and power management ICs. It is also expanding its analog IC product
line to include a much larger number of products designed to operate from
single-supply 3 or 5 volt power sources to better meet the needs of customers
designing portable battery-operated equipment.

ADI's analog IC products tend to be general purpose in nature, which allows
customers to incorporate them in a wide variety of equipment and systems. ADI's
product portfolio includes several hundred analog ICs, any one of which can have
as many as several hundred customers. Analog ICs typically have long product
life cycles. The Company's analog IC customers include both OEMs and customers
who build equipment for their own use. Historically, most analog ICs have been
purchased by OEMs that serve the instrumentation, industrial and
military/aerospace markets, but they are now also being used for applications in
communications, computers, camcorders, scanners, automatic test equipment,
imaging and other consumer applications requiring high-performance real-world
signal processing. By using standard, high-performance, readily available,
off-the-shelf components in their designs, ADI's customers can reduce the time
required to develop and bring new products to market. Given the high cost of
developing customized ICs, analog ICs usually provide the most cost-effective
solutions for low to medium volume applications. In addition, combinations of
analog ICs connected together on a printed circuit board can provide
functionality not currently achievable using a single IC.

Other analog ICs include circuits that are designed to serve the needs of
particularly demanding applications, e.g. very high speed analog timing and pin
driver circuits needed by OEMs in the automatic test equipment business.




                                       3
<PAGE>   5

Manufacturers of portable instrumentation need analog ICs designed to address
demanding battery life requirements, and need similar kinds of functions
available in analog IC products integrated into a single, very low-power chip.
Other principal requirements can include higher accuracy, lower cost per
function, smaller size, lower weight and fewer components for improved
reliability. These application specific products allow ADI's customers to design
smaller, lighter, higher performance, more power-efficient and lower-cost end
products. The Company believes that these benefits have become more important to
the Company's OEM customers as they increase their focus on high-performance,
small, lightweight products, many of which are battery-powered.

General Purpose DSP Technology

The Company's products that include DSP technology are designed to efficiently
execute specialized programs (algorithms) associated with processing digitized
real-time, real-world data. General-purpose DSP IC customers typically write
their own algorithms using software tools provided by the Company and software
tools obtained from third-party suppliers. All of these devices share a common
architecture which allows system designers to address cost, performance and
time-to-market constraints. ADI supports these products with specialized
applications and easy-to-use, low-cost design tools, which reduce product
development costs and time to market.

Mixed-Signal Technology

ADI's product range also includes multi-function mixed-signal devices which
incorporate combinations of analog and digital technology. The growing need to
allow user interface with computers and consumer products as well as the
development of communications systems has created new opportunities for these
mixed-signal devices. Examples of these devices include chipsets for
communication applications (GSM cellular phones, remote access servers, data and
fax modems), audio input/output devices and power and thermal management devices
for computer applications and motor control devices.

Micromachined Technology

The Company's technology base includes a number of new products using an
advanced IC technology known in the industry as surface micromachining. This
technology enables extremely small mechanical structures to be built on the
surface of a chip along with supporting circuitry. In addition to incorporating
an electro-mechanical structure, these devices also have analog circuitry for
conditioning signals obtained from the micromachined sensing element.

ADI's micromachined products are accelerometers used in a wide variety of
applications. The majority of current revenue from ADI's micromachined products
is derived from accelerometers used by automotive manufacturers in airbag
applications. Emerging applications include GPS automobile navigation systems,
earthquake detectors and high-end computer joysticks.

General Purpose and Custom Products

Across the entire range of ICs designed and manufactured by the Company there
are general purpose products and custom products designed for specific
applications for specific customers. In many of the new emerging markets in
communications, computer and consumer products there is a tendency to work with
selected large customers to design application-specific solutions which can
combine elements of analog, digital, mixed-signal and micromachined
functionality.

ASSEMBLED PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY

The Company's assembled products technology includes multi-chip modules (MCMs),
hybrids and printed circuit board modules. An MCM is a device made up of several
IC chips assembled in an automated fashion in a multilayer package that provides
high interconnect density at low cost. A hybrid consists of several chips and
discrete components mounted and wired together on a substrate, which is then
enclosed in a package. A printed-board module consists of surface-mount
components assembled on a small printed board that is then encapsulated in a
small plastic case.

Revenues from this product group have been declining for several years,
primarily because hybrids are being replaced in many new designs with smaller,
lower-cost monolithic ICs that offer higher levels of performance and
integration. Sales of these products have declined to approximately 3% of the
Company's total sales.



                                       4
<PAGE>   6

SALES CHANNELS

ADI sells its products in both North America and internationally through a
direct sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales
representatives. Approximately 46% of fiscal 1999 revenue was derived from
customers in North America. As of December 1, 1999, the Company had 14 sales
offices in the United States, and its third-party distribution channel consisted
of six national and regional third-party distributors and several independent
sales representatives at numerous locations throughout the U.S. and Canada.

Approximately 22% of the Company's fiscal 1999 revenue was derived from sales to
customers in Europe; 14% to customers in Japan; and 18% to customers in other
international markets. As of December 1, 1999, the Company had direct sales
offices in Australia, Austria, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong,
India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan
and the United Kingdom. The Company also had sales representatives and/or
distributors in approximately 40 countries outside North America, including
countries where the Company also has direct sales offices. For further detail
regarding geographic information, see Note 4 in the Notes to the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to the 1999
Annual Report to Shareholders and filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.2.

Approximately 42% of ADI's fiscal 1999 revenue was derived from sales made
through distributors. These distributors typically maintain an inventory of
Analog products. Some of them also sell products competitive with the Company's
products, including those for which the Company is an alternate source. Sales to
certain distributors are made under agreements which provide protection to the
distributors for their inventory of Company products against price reductions
and products that are slow-moving or have been discontinued by the Company.

The Company's worldwide sales efforts are supported by an extensive promotional
program that includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade
publications; direct mail programs; promotional brochures; technical seminars
and participation in trade shows. The Company publishes and distributes
full-length databooks, short-form catalogs, applications guides, technical
handbooks and detailed data sheets for individual products. The Company also
provides products and application information via its worldwide web site on the
Internet and the Company started to sell products on the Internet in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1999. The Company also maintains a staff of application
engineers who aid customers in incorporating Analog's products into their
products during their product development cycles.

For fiscal 1999, Analog's 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 30%
of the Company's net sales. The largest single customer represented
approximately 4% of net sales.

PRODUCTION AND RAW MATERIALS

Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a sequence of
semiconductor production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing,
cutting the wafer into individual "chips" (or dice), assembly of the dice into
packages and electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw
materials used to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing
chemicals (including liquefied gases), precious metals, ceramic packages and
plastic used for packaging.

ADI employs a wide variety of Company-developed proprietary processes
specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance linear and
mixed-signal and system-level ICs. The Company also uses industry-standard
bipolar and CMOS wafer fabrication processes.

ADI's IC products are fabricated both at the Company's production facilities and
by third-party wafer fabricators. The Company relies primarily on its own
facilities for fabricating wafers that require linear and mixed-signal
processes. The Company operates wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington and
Cambridge, Massachusetts; Santa Clara and Sunnyvale, California; and Limerick,
Ireland. The Company also operates assembly and test facilities located in the
United States, Ireland, the Philippines and Taiwan and also uses third-party
subcontractors. The Company has agreements with Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Company, (TSMC), and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte.,
Ltd., (CSM), for the production of digital and VLSI mixed-signal devices. To
provide access to advanced process technology at competitive costs, the Company
participates in a joint venture agreement (WaferTech, LLC) with TSMC, Altera,
Integrated Silicon Solutions and several individual investors that built an
eight-inch wafer fabrication facility in Camas, Washington. Originally the
Company had an 18% equity ownership in WaferTech. In



                                       5
<PAGE>   7

January 1999, the Company concluded an agreement to sell to other WaferTech
partners 78% of its equity ownership in WaferTech for cash equal to its
carrying value at October 31, 1998.

Hybrid products are manufactured by mounting and connecting together several
integrated circuit chips in a single package. Some of the chips used in the
Company's hybrids are manufactured by the Company and some are purchased from
outside suppliers. The production process for modular components, subsystems and
systems consists primarily of assembly, packaging and testing. Some of the
Company's assembled products are assembled and tested within the Company's U.S.
manufacturing facilities, while others are assembled and tested at Company-owned
facilities outside the United States or by subcontractors, principally in the
Far East.

To respond to production capacity requirements, the Company significantly
expanded its manufacturing capacity in 1997 and 1998. Major wafer fabrication
expansions were completed in Wilmington and Cambridge, Massachusetts; Sunnyvale,
California and Limerick, Ireland. Also, in fiscal 1998 the Company completed
construction of an additional assembly and test facility in Cavite, Philippines.
Capital expenditures were reduced to a total of $78 million in fiscal 1999 in
response to the industry downturn in the latter half of fiscal 1998 and the
early part of fiscal 1999.

BACKLOG

Backlog at the end of fiscal 1999 was approximately $446 million, up from
approximately $174 million at the end of fiscal 1998. The increase in the
backlog is a result of the rapid increase in demand for the Company's products
from the year earlier period. This is the result of an upturn in the
semiconductor industry during fiscal 1999 combined with increased demand for the
Company's products in the rapidly growing communications, computer and consumer
products markets. In periods of increased demand there is a tendency towards
longer lead times which has the effect of increasing backlog and, in some
instances, the Company may not have manufacturing capacity sufficient to fulfill
all orders. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, the Company includes
customers' forecast orders in backlog and often allows such orders to be
canceled or deliveries delayed by customers without significant penalty.
Accordingly, the Company believes that its backlog at any time should not be
used as a measure of future revenues.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

The Company estimates that approximately 7% of its fiscal 1999 total worldwide
revenue was attributable to sales to the U.S. government and government
contractors and subcontractors. Analog's government contract related business is
predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-price subcontracts. All such
contracts and subcontracts contain standard provisions relating to termination
at the election of the United States government.

COMPETITION

ADI competes with a large number of semiconductor companies in markets that are
highly competitive. The Company believes it is one of the largest suppliers of
high-performance linear and mixed-signal signal-processing components.
Competitors for the Company's analog, mixed-signal and DSP products include
Burr-Brown Corp., Cirrus Logic Inc., Harris Corp., Linear Technology Corp.,
Lucent Technologies Inc., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Motorola
Semiconductor Products, National Semiconductor Corp., Sierra Semiconductor
Corp., Siliconix Inc. and Texas Instruments, Inc. Sales of the Company's
micromachined products currently comprise acceleration sensors, and its main
competitors are Bosch, Motorola and Denso, which use a multichip solution
whereas ADI uses a single chip solution that the Company believes provides
cost, reliability and functional advantages in the marketplace.

Many other companies offer components that compete with ADI's products; some
also offer other electronic products, and some have financial resources
substantially larger than ADI's. Also, some formerly independent competitors
have been purchased by larger companies. However, to the Company's knowledge, no
manufacturer competes with ADI across all of the product types offered by the
Company in its signal-processing components product line.

The Company believes that competitive performance in the marketplace for
real-world signal-processing components depends upon several factors, including
product price, technical innovation, product quality and reliability, range of
products, customer service and technical support. The Company believes its
aggressive technical innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability,
supported by its commitment to strong customer service and technical support,
enables the Company to continue to compete successfully in its chosen markets
against both foreign and domestic semiconductor manufacturers.



                                       6
<PAGE>   8

ENVIRONMENT

Analog's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and
regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions.
Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on the
Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

EMPLOYEES

As of October 30, 1999, the Company employed approximately 7,400 persons. The
Company's future success depends in large part on the continued service of its
key technical and senior management personnel, and on its ability to continue to
attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly
skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of
existing products and the development of new products and processes. The
competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could
have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company believes that
relations with its employees are good.

