ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

COMPANY OVERVIEW

     We are a world leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of
high-performance analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing (DSP)
integrated circuits (ICs) used in signal processing applications.

     We produce a wide array of products for a variety of customers and markets.
Applications for our products include communications, cellular telephones,
computers and computer peripherals, consumer electronics, automotive
electronics, factory automation, process control and military and space systems.

     A growing market for our communications products has emerged due to the
rapid development of broadband and wireless communications infrastructure around
the world combined with the development of the Internet. Our expertise in
combining analog and digital functionality on a single chip has allowed us to
develop products that fulfill the technological challenges of this complex and
rapidly changing market.

     Increased interface between users and the PC through monitors, printers,
scanners and audio devices and the increasing need for power and thermal
management capability in PCs have provided us with many opportunities in the
computer market. Our ability to integrate analog, DSP and mixed-signal
functionality on ICs has enabled us to supply many critical high-performance
components required by PC manufacturers.

     The acquisition and display of signals combined with the requirement for
digital processing of these signals has allowed us to combine analog and digital
design capability to provide solutions that conform to the rigorous cost, size
and reliability constraints of the consumer electronics market. Examples of
products that incorporate our technology are compact disc players, DVD players
and digital camcorders and cameras.

     We serve the industrial market by providing data acquisition systems,
automatic process control systems, robotics, environmental control systems and
automatic test equipment. We also provide products to the instrumentation market
for use in engineering, medical and scientific instruments.

     Our products are sold worldwide through a direct sales force, third-party
industrial distributors and independent sales representatives. We have direct
sales offices in 19 countries, including the United States.

     We are headquartered near Boston, in Norwood, Massachusetts, and have
manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, California, North Carolina, Ireland,
the United Kingdom, the Philippines and Taiwan. Founded in 1965, we employ
approximately 9,100 people worldwide. Our stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol ADI and is included in the Standard & Poor's 500
Index.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, images, speed
and acceleration are inherently analog in nature, consisting of continuously
varying information. This information can be detected and measured using analog
sensors, which represent real-world phenomena by generating continuously varying
voltages and currents. The signals from these sensors are initially processed
using analog methods, such as amplification, filtering and shaping. They are
then usually converted to digital form for storage, display or further
manipulation. The further manipulation of the signals after conversion to
digital form is called "digital signal processing," or DSP. In addition, digital
signals are frequently converted to analog form to provide signals for functions
such as analog display, audio output or control. These manipulations and
transformations are known collectively as "real-world signal processing."

     Significant advances in semiconductor technology in recent years have led
to substantial increases in the performance and functionality of ICs used in
signal processing applications. These advances include the ability to combine
analog and digital signal processing capability on a single chip to offer much
more highly integrated solutions. The convergence of computing and
communications requires end products that incorporate state-of-the-art
signal-processing capability with as few chips as possible. Our products are
used as

                                        1
<PAGE>   3

components in equipment and systems to achieve higher performance, which
includes higher speed and higher accuracy, and more efficient signal processing,
while minimizing power consumption.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

     We are engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of a broad line of
high-performance ICs that incorporate analog, mixed-signal and digital signal
processing technologies that address a wide range of real-world signal
processing applications. We have a generic list of approximately 2,000 products,
with the highest revenue product accounting for approximately 4% of our revenue
for fiscal 2000. Many of our products are proprietary, while equivalents to
other products are available from a limited number of other suppliers. We also
design, manufacture and market a range of assembled products.

MARKETS AND APPLICATIONS

     The following describes some of the characteristics of, and products
supplied to, each of our major markets:

     COMMUNICATIONS -- The rapid development of broadband and wireless
communications infrastructure around the world combined with the development of
the Internet has created a rapidly growing market for our products.
Communications technology involves the acquisition of analog signals that are
converted from analog to digital and digital to analog form as they are
processed and transmitted. Our expertise in combining analog and digital
functionality on a single chip has enabled us to develop products that fulfill
the technological challenges of this complex and rapidly expanding market space.
The need for ever higher speed and reduced power consumption, coupled with more
reliable, more bandwidth-efficient communications, is creating increasing demand
for our products which are used in systems that include digital, analog and
mixed-signal processing capability. The products are used in the full spectrum
of signal processing for audio, data, image or video communication. In broadband
and wireless communication applications, our products are incorporated into data
and digital subscriber line (DSL) modems, cellular telephones, base station
equipment and remote access servers. We are also engaged in the development of
micromachined products that may result in all-optical switching elements for use
in optical networks.

     COMPUTERS AND COMPUTER PERIPHERALS -- Increased interface between users and
the PC through monitors, printers, scanners and audio devices and the increasing
need for power and thermal management capability in PCs have provided many
opportunities in the computer market. Our ability to integrate analog, DSP and
mixed-signal functionality on ICs has enabled us to supply many high performance
critical components required by PC manufacturers. The computer industry requires
smaller, lighter personal computers, creating increased demand for high
performance ICs to monitor power usage thereby allowing manufacturers to use
smaller batteries and extend battery life between charges. We currently supply a
variety of ICs used in this market for functions such as graphic displays,
interfaces between PCs and peripherals such as modems and printers, power and
battery management, and enhanced audio input and output capability for business
and entertainment applications.

     CONSUMER ELECTRONICS -- The acquisition and display of signals combined
with the requirement for digital processing of these signals have allowed us to
combine analog and digital design capability to provide solutions that conform
to the rigorous cost, size and reliability constraints of the consumer
electronics market. The emergence of high-performance consumer products, such as
compact disc players, DVD players and digital camcorders and cameras, has led to
the need for high-performance system-level ICs with a high level of specific
functionality. The addition of monitoring and motor control devices on many
consumer products has also created new opportunities for us.

     INDUSTRIAL -- Our industrial market includes data acquisition systems,
automatic process control systems, robotics, environmental control systems and
automatic test equipment. These products generally require ICs that offer
performance greater than that available from commodity-level ICs, but generally
do not have production volumes that warrant custom or application-specific ICs.
Combinations of analog and mixed-signal ICs are usually employed to achieve the
necessary functionality, except in automatic test equipment

                                        2
<PAGE>   4

applications where the high level of electronic circuitry required per tester
has created opportunities for the design of system-level ICs.

     INSTRUMENTATION -- Our instrumentation market includes engineering, medical
and scientific instruments. These products are usually designed using the
highest performance analog and mixed-signal ICs available, where production
volumes generally do not warrant custom or application-specific ICs.

     MILITARY/AEROSPACE -- The military, commercial avionics and space markets
all require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and
reliability specifications. Nearly all of our analog ICs can be supplied in
versions that meet appropriate military standards. In addition, many products
can be supplied to meet the standards required for broadcast satellites and
other commercial space applications. Most of our products sold in this market
are derived from standard commercial grade ICs, although we sometimes develop
products expressly for military/aerospace applications.

     AUTOMOTIVE -- Although the automotive market has historically been served
with low-cost, low-performance ICs, demand has emerged for higher performance
devices for a wide range of applications. In response, we are developing
products specifically for the automotive market. We supply a micromachined IC
used as a crash sensor in airbag systems, which serves as an alternative to an
electromechanical sensor. We believe that other micromachined devices derived
from this product may be suitable for other automotive applications, such as
roll-over sensing, global positioning satellite (GPS) automotive navigation
systems, anti-lock brakes and "smart" suspension systems and other applications
including earthquake detectors and high-end computer joysticks.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     The market we serve are characterized by rapid technological changes and
advances. Accordingly, we make substantial investments in the design and
development of new products and processes, and for significant improvement of
existing products and processes. We incurred $401 million during fiscal 2000
related to the design, development and improvement of new and existing products
and processes, compared to $257 million and $219 million during fiscal 1999 and
fiscal 1998, respectively.

     In support of our research and development activities, we employ hundreds
of engineers involved in product and process development at several design
centers and manufacturing sites located throughout the world.

     As of October 28, 2000, we owned approximately 595 U.S. patents and had 211
patent applications on file with the United States patent office. We believe
that while our patents may provide some advantage, our competitive position is
largely determined by such factors as the knowledge, ability and experience of
our personnel, new product development, market recognition and ongoing marketing
efforts, customer service and technical support.

IC TECHNOLOGY

  Analog Technology

     Analog IC technology has been the foundation of our business for more than
25 years, and we believe we are one of the world's largest suppliers of analog
ICs. Our analog ICs are primarily high-performance, single-function devices. The
majority of our analog IC product revenue is attributable to sales of data
converters (analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. Other
analog IC products offered by us include analog signal processing devices (such
as analog multipliers), voltage references and comparators. Over the past few
years we have been expanding our analog IC product offerings into product areas
where our focus was previously limited, principally interface circuits and power
management ICs. We are also expanding our analog IC product line to include a
much larger number of products designed to operate from single-supply 3 or 5
volt power sources to better meet the needs of customers designing portable
battery-operated equipment.

     Our analog IC products tend to be general purpose in nature, which allows
customers to incorporate them in a wide variety of equipment and systems. Our
product portfolio includes several hundred analog ICs, any

                                        3
<PAGE>   5

one of which can have as many as several hundred customers. Analog ICs typically
have long product life cycles. Our analog IC customers include both OEMs and
customers who build equipment for their own use. Historically, most analog ICs
have been purchased by OEMs that serve the instrumentation, industrial and
military/aerospace markets, but they are now also being used for applications in
communications, computers, camcorders, scanners, automatic test equipment,
imaging and other consumer applications requiring high-performance real-world
signal processing. By using standard, high-performance, readily available,
off-the-shelf components in their designs, our customers can reduce the time
required to develop and bring new products to market. Given the high cost of
developing customized ICs, analog ICs usually provide the most cost-effective
solutions for low to medium volume applications. In addition, combinations of
analog ICs connected together on a printed circuit board can provide
functionality not currently achievable using a single IC.

     Other analog ICs include circuits that are designed to serve the needs of
particularly demanding applications, e.g. very high speed analog timing and pin
driver circuits needed by OEMs in the automatic test equipment business.
Manufacturers of portable instrumentation need analog ICs designed to address
demanding battery life requirements, and need similar kinds of functions
available in analog IC products integrated into a single, very low-power chip.
Other principal requirements can include higher accuracy, lower cost per
function, smaller size, lower weight and fewer components for improved
reliability. These application specific products allow our customers to design
smaller, lighter, higher performance, more power-efficient and lower-cost end
products. We believe that these benefits have become more important to our OEM
customers as they increase their focus on high-performance, small, lightweight
products, many of which are battery-powered.

  General Purpose DSP Technology

     Our products that include DSP technology are designed to efficiently
execute specialized programs (algorithms) associated with processing digitized
real-time, real-world data. General-purpose DSP IC customers typically write
their own algorithms using software tools provided by us and software tools
obtained from third-party suppliers. All of these devices share a common
architecture which allows system designers to address cost, performance and
time-to-market constraints. We support these products with specialized
applications and easy-to-use, low-cost design tools, which reduce product
development costs and time to market.

  Mixed-Signal Technology

     Our product range also includes multi-function mixed-signal devices which
incorporate combinations of analog and digital technology. The growing need to
allow user interface with computers and consumer products as well as the
development of communications systems has created new opportunities for these
mixed-signal devices. Examples of these devices include chipsets for
communication applications (GSM cellular phones, remote access servers, data and
fax modems), audio input/output devices and power and thermal management devices
for computer applications and motor control devices.

  Micromachined Technology

     Our technology base includes a number of new products using an advanced IC
technology known in the industry as surface micromachining. This technology
enables extremely small mechanical structures to be built on the surface of a
chip along with supporting circuitry. In addition to incorporating an electro-
mechanical structure, these devices also have analog circuitry for conditioning
signals obtained from the micromachined sensing element.

     Our micromachined products are accelerometers used in a wide variety of
applications. The majority of current revenue from micromachined products is
derived from accelerometers used by automotive manufacturers in airbag
applications. Emerging applications include GPS automobile navigation systems,
earthquake detectors and high-end computer joysticks. We are also engaged in the
development of micromachined products that may result in all-optical switching
elements for use in optical networks.

                                        4
<PAGE>   6

  General Purpose and Custom Products

     Across the entire range of ICs designed and manufactured by us there are
general purpose products and custom products designed for specific applications
for specific customers. In many of the new emerging markets in communications,
computer and consumer products there is a tendency to work with selected large
customers to design application-specific solutions which can combine elements of
analog, digital, mixed-signal and micromachined functionality.

ASSEMBLED PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY

     Our assembled products technology includes multi-chip modules (MCMs),
hybrids and printed circuit board modules. An MCM is a device made up of several
IC chips assembled in an automated fashion in a multilayer package that provides
high interconnect density at low cost. A hybrid consists of several chips and
discrete components mounted and wired together on a substrate, which is then
enclosed in a package. A printed-board module consists of surface-mount
components assembled on a small printed board that is then encapsulated in a
small plastic case.

     Revenues from this product group have been declining for several years,
primarily because hybrids are being replaced in many new designs with smaller,
lower-cost monolithic ICs that offer higher levels of performance and
integration. Sales of these products have declined to approximately 2% of our
total sales.

SALES CHANNELS

     We sell our products in both North America and internationally through a
direct sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales
representatives. Approximately 45% of our fiscal 2000 net sales came from
customers in North America. As of December 1, 2000, we had 13 sales offices in
the United States, and our third-party distribution channel consisted of six
national and regional third-party distributors and several independent sales
representatives at numerous locations throughout the U.S. and Canada.

     Approximately 19% of our fiscal 2000 net sales came from sales to customers
in Europe; 14% to customers in Japan; and 22% to customers in other
international markets. As of December 1, 2000, we had direct sales offices in
Australia, Austria, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the
United Kingdom. We also had sales representatives and/or distributors in
approximately 40 countries outside North America, including countries where we
also have direct sales offices. For further detail regarding geographic
information, see Note 4 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements
incorporated herein by reference to the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders and
filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.2.

     Approximately 40% of our fiscal 2000 revenue was derived from sales made
through distributors. These distributors typically maintain an inventory of our
products. Some of them also sell products competitive with our products,
including those for which we are an alternate source. Sales to certain
distributors are made under agreements which provide protection to the
distributors for their inventory of our products against price reductions and
products that are slow-moving or that we have discontinued.

     Our worldwide sales efforts are supported by an extensive promotional
program that includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade
publications; direct mail programs; promotional brochures; technical seminars
and participation in trade shows. We publish and distribute full-length
databooks, short-form catalogs, applications guides, technical handbooks and
detailed data sheets for individual products. We also provide product and
application information via our worldwide web site on the Internet and we
started to sell products on the Internet in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.
We also maintain a staff of application engineers who aid customers in
incorporating our products into their products during their product development
cycles.

     For fiscal 2000, our 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 36%
of our net sales. The largest single customer represented approximately 8% of
net sales.

                                        5
<PAGE>   7

PRODUCTION AND RAW MATERIALS

     Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a sequence of
semiconductor production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing,
cutting the wafer into individual "chips" (or dice), assembly of the dice into
packages and electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw
materials used to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing
chemicals (including liquefied gases), precious metals, ceramic packages and
plastic used for packaging.

     We employ a wide variety of Company-developed proprietary processes
specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance linear,
mixed-signal and system-level ICs. We also use industry-standard bipolar and
CMOS wafer fabrication processes.

     Our IC products are fabricated both at our production facilities and by
third-party wafer fabricators. We rely primarily on our own facilities for
fabricating wafers that require linear and mixed-signal processes. We operate
wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington and Cambridge, Massachusetts; Santa
Clara and Sunnyvale, California; Belfast, Northern Ireland and Limerick,
Ireland. We also operate assembly and test facilities located in the United
States, Ireland, the Philippines and Taiwan and also use third-party
subcontractors. We have agreements with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Company, (TSMC), and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd., (CSM),
for the production of digital and very large scale integration mixed-signal
devices. To provide access to advanced process technology at competitive costs,
we participated in a joint venture agreement (WaferTech, LLC) with TSMC, Altera,
Integrated Silicon Solutions and several individual investors that built a
fabrication facility for eight-inch wafers in Camas, Washington. Originally we
had an 18% equity ownership in WaferTech. In January 1999, we concluded an
agreement to sell to other WaferTech partners 78% of our equity ownership in
WaferTech for cash equal to our carrying value at October 31, 1998. Subsequent
to our fiscal year ended October 28, 2000 we realized approximately $61 million
from the sale of our remaining interest in WaferTech to TSMC, realizing a net
pretax gain of approximately $28 million.

     Hybrid products are manufactured by mounting and connecting together
several integrated circuit chips in a single package. Some of the chips used in
our hybrids are manufactured by us and some are purchased from outside
suppliers. The production process for modular components, subsystems and systems
consists primarily of assembly, packaging and testing. Some of our assembled
products are assembled and tested within our U.S. manufacturing facilities,
while others are assembled and tested at our facilities outside the United
States or by subcontractors, principally in the Far East.

     To respond to production capacity requirements, we significantly expanded
our manufacturing capacity over the past several years. Major wafer fabrication
expansions were completed in Wilmington, Massachusetts, Santa Clara, California,
and Limerick, Ireland. Also, in fiscal 2000 we began construction of an
additional assembly and test facility in Cavite, Philippines. We expect that our
capital expenditures for fiscal 2001 will be approximately $450 million.

BACKLOG

     Backlog at the end of fiscal 2000 was approximately $1,062 million, up from
approximately $446 million at the end of fiscal 1999. The increase in the
backlog is a result of the rapid increase in demand for our products from the
year earlier period. This is the result of increased demand for our products in
the rapidly growing communications, computer and consumer products markets. In
periods of increased demand there is a tendency towards longer lead times which
has the effect of increasing backlog and, in some instances, we may not have
manufacturing capacity sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is customary in the
semiconductor industry, we include customers' forecast orders in backlog and
allow such orders to be canceled or deliveries delayed by customers without
significant penalty. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog at any time should
not be used as an indication of future revenues.

                                        6
<PAGE>   8

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

     We estimate that approximately 4% of our fiscal 2000 total worldwide
revenue was attributable to sales to the U.S. government and government
contractors and subcontractors. Our government contract related business is
predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-price subcontracts. All such
contracts and subcontracts contain standard provisions relating to termination
at the election of the United States government.

COMPETITION

     We compete with a large number of semiconductor companies in markets that
are highly competitive. We believe we are one of the largest suppliers of
high-performance linear and mixed-signal signal-processing components.
Competitors for our analog, mixed-signal and DSP products include Cirrus Logic
Inc., Harris Corp., Linear Technology Corp., Lucent Technologies Inc., Maxim
Integrated Products, Inc., Motorola Semiconductor Products, National
Semiconductor Corp., Sierra Semiconductor Corp., Siliconix Inc. and Texas
Instruments, Inc. Sales of our micromachined products currently comprise
acceleration sensors, and our main competitors are Bosch, Motorola and Denso,
which use a multichip solution whereas we use a single chip solution that we
believe provides cost, reliability and functional advantages in the marketplace.

     Many other companies offer components that compete with our products; some
also offer other electronic products, and some have financial resources
substantially larger than ours. Also, some formerly independent competitors have
been purchased by larger companies. However, to our knowledge, no manufacturer
competes with us across all of the product types offered by us in our
signal-processing components product line.

     We believe that competitive performance in the marketplace for real-world
signal-processing components depends upon several factors, including product
price, technical innovation, product quality and reliability, range of products,
customer service and technical support. We believe our aggressive technical
innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by our
commitment to strong customer service and technical support, enables us to
continue to compete successfully in our chosen markets against both foreign and
domestic semiconductor manufacturers.

ENVIRONMENT

     Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and
regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions.
Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

EMPLOYEES

     As of October 28, 2000, we employed approximately 9,100 persons. Our future
success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and
senior management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain
and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly skilled design,
process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and
the development of new products and processes. The competition for such
personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could have a material
adverse effect on us. We believe that relations with our employees are good.
