ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

GENERAL

Altera Corporation ("Altera" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets
programmable logic devices ("PLDs") and associated development tools.
Programmable logic devices are semiconductor integrated circuits ("chips" or
"ICs") that offer on-site programmability to customers using the Company's
proprietary software, which operates on personal computers and engineering
workstations. Founded in 1983, Altera was the first supplier of Complementary
Metal Oxide Semiconductor ("CMOS") programmable logic devices and is currently a
global leader in this market. The Company offers a broad line of CMOS
programmable logic devices that address high-speed, high-density and low-power
applications. The Company's products serve a wide range of markets, including
telecommunications, data communications, electronic data processing (EDP) and
industrial applications.

STRATEGY

According to Dataquest, the CMOS logic market consists of the following
segments: semi-custom or application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs"),
standard logic, full custom devices and other forms of logic ICs, including
chipsets. The ASIC segment is comprised of programmable logic, gate arrays and
cell-based ICs (also referred to as standard cells). In a broad sense, all of
these devices are indirectly competitive as they generally may be used in the
same types of applications in electronic products. However, differences in cost,
performance, density, flexibility, ease-of-use and time-to-market dictate the
extent to which they may be directly competitive for particular applications.

Programmable logic's primary advantage is that it allows for quicker design
cycles, meeting customers' needs for quick time-to-market. Programmable logic
allows customers to experiment and iterate their designs in a relatively short
amount of time and with minimum cost. In most instances, this is quicker and
easier than achieving a design in a deterministic fashion. This advantage is
amplified by the ability to have working silicon at the time the design is
finalized.

Another advantage of programmable logic is that, particularly for small volume
applications, it lowers the per unit cost of producing customized components.
While programmable logic inherently consumes more silicon (because of its
generality and on-chip programming overhead), in many cases, depending on the
complexity of the design and total unit requirements, this higher per unit cost
is more than offset by the high fixed costs of layout and mask-making required
to produce a custom IC. The cost advantage is further enhanced by the need to
hold less inventory and the fact that customization occurs closer to the end
application.

Due to PLD cost decreases through high-volume manufacturing and the use of
emerging process technologies, Altera has been able to introduce new product
families that, as compared to their predecessors, provide more functionality at
a much lower price for any given density. These new product families achieve the
integration, density, performance and cost advantages of other ASIC solutions.
The Company believes that its competitiveness within the ASIC segment in these
areas, along with the inherent advantages of programmable logic discussed above,
will enable it to compete for designs traditionally served by other ASICs. In
the short term, the lower prices associated with the Company's new product
offerings have slowed its sales growth. However, Altera believes that these new
product offerings will be important to sustaining long-term sales growth as they
broaden the appeal of programmable logic. See "Competition."


                                       2

<PAGE>   3

PRODUCTS

Altera sells a wide range of products, with a total of more than 1,000 product
options among its PLD families. The Company offers PLDs in two fundamental
technologies: its MAX products, which use floating-gate process technology, and
its FLEX and APEX products, which use SRAM-based process technology. Altera's
proprietary development tools, the MAX+PLUS II and Quartus software provides
design development and programming support for all its PLDs. Altera also offers
hardware used in programming PLDs.

Devices:

Altera offers a wide range of general-purpose PLD families. Each device family
offers unique features as well as differing density and performance
specifications for implementing particular applications. Some of Altera's major
device families include the following:

MAX 7000, MAX 7000A and MAX 7000B: The MAX 7000, MAX 7000A and MAX 7000B device
families are among the fastest and most widely used high-density programmable
logic families in the industry. Devices in these families range from 600 to
10,000 usable gates and up to 256 pins and provide several enhanced features,
including support for the JTAG boundary-scan test circuitry and in-system
programmability ("ISP"). ISP functionality allows devices to be programmed after
they are soldered onto the printed circuit board, thereby minimizing the
possibility of lead damage or electrostatic discharge exposure. The MAX 7000
device family, which includes 5.0-V MAX 7000 devices and 5.0-V ISP-based MAX
7000S devices, the 3.3-V MAX 7000A device family and the industry's fastest
programmable logic solution, the 2.5 V MAX 7000B device family, are fabricated
on advanced CMOS EEPROM processes, providing a high-density, high-speed,
I/O-intensive programmable logic solution.

MAX 9000: The MAX 9000 device family offers the efficient macrocell architecture
of MAX 7000 devices with higher densities. Devices in this family range from
6,000 to 12,000 usable gates and up to 356 pins. The EEPROM-based MAX 9000
devices are PCI-compliant and offer ISP capability.

FLEX 8000: The SRAM-based FLEX 8000 device family uses the Altera-patented
FastTrack Interconnect structure, a continuous routing structure that allows for
fast, predictable interconnect delays. Devices in this family range from 2,500
to 16,000 usable gates and up to 304 pins. FLEX 8000 devices have a 5.0-V supply
voltage and can interface with 3.3-V device through the MultiVolt(TM) I/O
feature. These SRAM-based devices provide low standby power and in-system
reconfigurability.

FLEX 6000: Altera's SRAM-based FLEX 6000 family delivers the flexibility and
time-to-market advantage of programmable logic at prices that are competitive
with gate arrays. Devices in this family range from 10,000 to 24,000 usable
gates and up to 256 pins and include devices that operate at both 5.0-V and
3.3-V supply voltages. Featuring the very efficient OptiFLEX architecture, FLEX
6000 devices provide a flexible and cost-effective alternative to gate arrays
for high-volume production. Every feature in the OptiFLEX architecture is
targeted at producing maximum performance and utilization in the smallest
possible die area.

FLEX 10K, FLEX 10KA and FLEX 10KE: Altera's SRAM-based FLEX 10K, FLEX 10KA and
FLEX 10KE device families offer a combination of logic and embedded memory on a
single chip architecture. Devices in these PLD families range from 10,000 to
250,000 usable gates and up to 672 pins. With these high densities, the FLEX
10K, FLEX 10KA and FLEX 10KE families may be used to address the increasing
levels of integration needed to accommodate today's complex system-on-a-chip
designs. The FLEX 10K family includes 0.5- and 0.42-micron devices, the FLEX
10KA family includes 0.35- and 0.3-micron devices and the FLEX 10KE family
includes 0.25- and 0.22-micron devices.

APEX 20K and APEX 20KE: Altera's SRAM-based APEX 20K and APEX 20KE device
families offer complete system-level integration on a single device. Devices in
these families are planned to range from 30,000 to over 1.5 million usable gates
and up to 1,020 pins. With high densities and performance enhancements, the APEX
20K and APEX 20KE families deliver the latest in design flexibility and
efficiency for high-performance, system-on-a-programmable-chip design. APEX 20K
devices, which operate at a 2.5-V supply voltage, and APEX 20KE devices, which
will operate at a 1.8-V supply voltage, employ the innovative MultiCore
architecture, which combines and enhances the strengths of Altera's three
previous PLD architectures. The APEX 20K and APEX 20KE devices first became
available in March and April 1999, respectively, and are supported by Altera's
Quartus development software.



                                       3
<PAGE>   4

Development Tools:

The Company's development system software and hardware are used to design and
implement logic designs on its PLDs. Altera's MAX+PLUS II and Quartus software
development tools run under the Microsoft Windows 95 and NT operating
environments on personal computers in addition to the UNIX environment on SUN,
HP and IBM workstations. The Company also provides interfaces to many industry
standard electronic design automation ("EDA") tools, including those offered by
Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation and Synopsys, Inc. The
Company also sells hardware for programming its PLDs.

MARKETING, SALES AND CUSTOMERS

The Company markets its products in the United States and Canada through a
network of direct sales personnel, independent sales representatives and
electronics distributors. The Company also has domestic sales management offices
in major metropolitan areas throughout the United States. The Company's direct
sales personnel and independent sales representatives focus on major strategic
accounts. Distributors generally focus selling activities on the broad base of
small and medium-size customers, as well as demand fulfillment services to
Altera's major strategic accounts.

In the United States, Altera's distributors currently include Arrow Electronics
Inc. and Wyle Electronics (a division of VEBA Electronics AG, which is owned by
VEBA AG, Germany's fourth largest company). These distributors are responsible
for creating customer demand from their base of customers, providing technical
support and other value-added services and filling customers' orders. From time
to time, the Company expects that it may add or delete distributors from its
selling organization as it deems appropriate to the level of business.

The Company's international business is supported by a network of distributors
throughout Europe and Asia. The Company has representation in every major
European country, Israel, Australia, South America and various countries
throughout the Pacific Rim including Japan. International sales support offices
are located in the metropolitan areas of Helsinki, Hong Kong, Hsinchu (Taiwan),
London, Ottawa, Paris, Seoul, Stockholm, Stuttgart, Tokyo and Turin.

Customer service and support are important aspects of selling and marketing the
Company's products. Altera provides several levels of technical user support,
including applications assistance, design services and customer training. The
Company's applications engineering staff publishes data sheets and application
notes, conducts technical seminars and provides design assistance via Internet
and electronic links to the customer's design station. Customer service is
supported with inventory maintained both by Altera and at distributors'
locations to provide short-term delivery of chips.

During each of the last three years, international sales constituted nearly half
of the Company's total sales. Through 1999, all international sales were
denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company's international sales are subject to
those risks common to all international activities, including governmental
regulation, possible imposition of tariffs or other trade barriers and currency
fluctuations.

In the year ended December 31, 1999, worldwide sales through distributors
accounted for over 90% of total sales. In 1999, the three largest distributors
accounted for 34%, 19% and 13% of sales. In 1998, the three largest distributors
accounted for 30%, 21% and 11% of sales, whereas in 1997, they accounted for
32%, 18% and 11% of sales, respectively. No single end customer accounted for
more than 10% of the Company's sales in 1999, 1998 or 1997. International sales
constituted 44%, 45% and 45% of sales in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

COMPETITION

The ASIC Segment:

According to Dataquest, the CMOS logic market consists of the following
segments: ASICs, standard logic, full custom devices and other forms of logic
ICs, including chipsets. The ASIC segment is comprised of programmable logic,
gate arrays and cell-based ICs (also referred to as standard cells). In a broad
sense, all of these devices are indirectly competitive as they generally may be
used in the same types of applications in electronic products. However,
differences in cost, performance, density, flexibility, ease-of-use and
time-to-market dictate the extent to which they may be directly competitive for
particular applications. As PLDs have increased in density and performance and
decreased in cost, they have become more directly competitive with other ASICs,
especially gate arrays. With the introduction of the Company's FLEX 10K family
and new APEX 20K family, which are Altera's highest density PLDs, along with its
FLEX 6000 devices, which are designed and priced to be very competitive with
lower density gate arrays, the Company seeks to grow by directly competing with
other companies in the ASIC segment. Many of the companies in the ASIC segment
have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the
Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in
competing in the ASIC segment of the CMOS logic market.


                                       4
<PAGE>   5

The Programmable Logic Sub-Segment:

The principal factors of competition in the programmable logic sub-segment
include the capability of software development tools and system-level functional
programming blocks, product performance and features, quality and reliability,
pricing, technical service and support, the ability to respond rapidly to
technical innovation and customer service. The Company believes it competes
favorably with respect to these factors and that its proprietary device
architecture and its installed base of development systems with proprietary
software may provide some competitive advantage. However, as is true of the
semiconductor industry as a whole, the PLD sub-segment is intensely competitive
and is characterized by rapid technological change, rapid rates of product
obsolescence and price erosion resulting from both product obsolescence and
price competition. All of these factors may influence the Company's future
operating results.

The Company experiences significant direct competition from a number of other
companies which are in the programmable logic sub-segment. The Company's
competition in this market sub-segment is from suppliers of products that are
marketed as either field-programmable gate arrays ("FPGAs") or complex PLDs
("CPLDs").

Companies that currently compete with Altera in its core business may have
proprietary wafer manufacturing ability, preferred vendor status with many of
the Company's customers, extensive marketing power and name recognition, greater
financial resources than those of the Company and other significant advantages
over the Company. Additionally, the semiconductor industry as a whole includes
many large domestic and foreign companies that have substantially greater
financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company. The Company
expects that as the dollar volume of the programmable logic sub-segment grows,
the attractiveness of this sub-segment to larger, more powerful competitors will
continue to increase. Substantial direct or indirect competition could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's future sales and operating results.

MANUFACTURING

The Company does not directly manufacture its silicon wafers. Altera's wafers
are produced using various semiconductor foundry wafer fabrication service
providers. This enables Altera to take advantage of these suppliers' high volume
economies of scale, as well as direct and more timely access to advancing
process technology.

Altera presently has its primary wafer supply arrangements with three
semiconductor vendors: Sharp, TSMC, and WaferTech. The Company may negotiate
additional foundry contracts and establish other sources of wafer supply for its
products as such arrangements become economically useful or technically
necessary. Although there are a number of new state-of-the-art wafer fabrication
facilities currently under construction around the world, semiconductor foundry
capacity can become limited quickly and without much notice. Furthermore, since
only newer fabrication or substantially retrofitted facilities are able to
manufacture wafers that incorporate leading edge technologies, any significant
decrease in capacity of these facilities would have a material adverse effect on
the Company's ability to obtain wafer supply for its newer products.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any shortage in foundry
manufacturing capacity will not result in production problems for the Company in
the future.

In June 1996, the Company, TSMC and several other partners formed a joint
venture called WaferTech, LLC ("WaferTech") to build and operate a wafer
manufacturing plant in Camas, Washington. In return for a $140.4 million cash
investment, the Company received an 18% equity ownership in the joint-venture
company and certain rights and obligations to procure output from the fab at
market prices. In January 1999, Altera purchased from another joint venture
partner, Analog Devices, an additional 5% equity ownership interest in WaferTech
for approximately $37.5 million. This further investment in WaferTech provides
the Company with additional rights and obligations to future foundry output. In
October 1999, the Company made a $23.0 million cash investment in WaferTech,
which did not change the Company's ownership interests in WaferTech or its
rights and obligations to future foundry output. The Company also has an
obligation to guarantee a pro rata share of debt incurred by WaferTech up to a
maximum of $45 million. In May 1998, WaferTech secured a loan facility of up to
$350 million which was subsequently reduced to $225 million in December 1998.
This facility was increased to $350 million in 1999. To date, the Company has
not been called upon to guarantee this or any other debt incurred by WaferTech.
WaferTech began its initial wafer production shipments in October 1998. Based on
WaferTech's production projections, the Company believes that it will meet its
minimum purchase obligations from WaferTech through at least 2000. There can be
no assurance that WaferTech will remain sufficiently capitalized or on schedule
with its production projections, and WaferTech's failure to do so could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's future operating results.

The Company depends upon its foundry vendors to produce wafers at acceptable
yields and to deliver them to the Company in a timely manner. The manufacture of
advanced CMOS semiconductor wafers is a highly complex process, and the Company
has from time to time experienced difficulties in obtaining acceptable yields
and timely deliveries from its suppliers. Good production yields are
particularly important to the Company's business, including its ability to meet
customers' demand for products and to


                                       5
<PAGE>   6
 maintain profit margins. Wafer production yields are dependent on a wide
variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing
environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of personnel
and equipment. As is common in the semiconductor industry, the Company has
experienced and expects to experience production yield problems from time to
time. Difficulties in production yields can often occur when the Company is
beginning production of new products or transitioning to new processes. These
difficulties can potentially result in significantly higher costs and lower
product availability. For example, in the second quarter of 1999, difficulties
with a vendor's manufacturing process limited the availability of packaging
material (piece parts) used in certain of the Company's new and proprietary
FineLine BGA(TM) ("ball-grid array") packages causing limited production. This
in turn limited shipments of the Company's new FLEX 10KE product family.
Management expects to continue to introduce new and established products using
new process technologies and may encounter similar start-up difficulties during
the transition to such process technologies. Further, production throughput
times vary considerably among the Company's wafer suppliers, and the Company may
experience delays from time to time in processing some of its products which
also may result in higher costs and lower product availability. The Company
expects that, as is customary in the semiconductor business, in order to
maintain or enhance its competitive position, it will continue to convert its
fabrication process arrangements to larger wafer sizes and smaller circuit
geometries, to more advanced process technologies or to new suppliers. Such
conversions entail inherent technological risks that can adversely affect
yields, costs and delivery lead time. In addition, if for any reason the Company
were required to seek alternative sources of supply, shipments could be delayed
significantly while such sources are qualified for volume production, and any
significant delay could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
operating results. After wafer manufacturing is completed, each wafer is tested
using a variety of test and handling equipment. Such wafer testing is
accomplished at Sharp, TSMC, WaferTech and the Company's Pilot Line facility in
San Jose (which is used primarily for new product development). This testing is
performed on equipment owned by the Company and consigned to the vendors.

Resulting wafers are shipped to various Asian assembly suppliers, where good die
are separated into individual chips that are then encapsulated in ceramic or
plastic packages. As is the case with the Company's wafer supply business, the
Company employs a number of independent suppliers for assembly purposes. This
enables the Company to take advantage of subcontractor high volume
manufacturing, related cost savings, speed and supply flexibility. It also
provides the Company with timely access to cost-effective advanced process and
package technologies. Altera purchases almost all of its assembly services from
ASAT (Hong Kong), ASE (Malaysia) and AMKOR (Korea and the Philippines).

Following assembly, each of the packaged units receives final testing, marking
and inspection prior to shipment to customers. The Company obtains almost all of
its final test and back-end operation services from ASE, AMKOR and ASAT. Final
testing by these assembly suppliers is accomplished through the use of Altera's
proprietary test software and hardware, which is consigned to or owned by such
suppliers and/or third-party commercial testers. These suppliers also handle
shipment of the products to the Company's customers.

Additionally, almost all of the manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging
of Altera's development system hardware products is performed by outside
contractors. Although the Company's wafer fabrication, assembly and other
subcontractors have not recently experienced any serious work stoppages, the
economic, social and political situations in countries where certain
subcontractors are located are unpredictable and can be volatile. Any prolonged
work stoppages or other inability of the Company to manufacture and assemble its
products would have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating
results. Furthermore, economic risks, such as extreme currency fluctuations,
adverse changes in tax laws, tariff or freight rates or interruptions in air
transportation, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating
results.

BACKLOG

The Company's backlog of released orders as of December 31, 1999 was
approximately $309.4 million as compared to approximately $142.6 million at
December 31, 1998. The Company's backlog consists of OEM customer-released
orders that are requested for delivery within the next six months and
distributor orders that are requested for delivery within the next three months.
The Company produces standard products that may be shipped from inventory within
a short time after receipt of an order. The Company's business has been
characterized by a high percentage of orders with near-term delivery schedules
(turns orders). At times, due to high demand and supply constraints in certain
products, lead times can lengthen, causing an increase in backlog. However,
orders constituting the Company's current backlog are cancelable without
significant penalty at the option of the purchaser, thereby decreasing backlog
during periods of lower demand. In addition, distributor shipments are subject
to price adjustments. As discussed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements under Item 8 herein, the Company adopted a new revenue recognition
method in the fourth quarter of 1997 with an effective date of January 1, 1997,
which involves the deferral of revenue recognition on shipments to distributors
until the product is resold to the end customers. Distributor orders accounted
for over 90% of the Company's backlog as of December 31, 1999. Historically,
backlog has been a poor predictor of future customer demand. For all of these
reasons, backlog as of any particular date should not be used as a predictor of
sales for any future period.


                                       6
<PAGE>   7

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's research and development activities have focused primarily on
general-purpose programmable logic devices and on the associated development
software and hardware. The Company has developed these related products in
parallel to provide software support to customers simultaneous with circuit
introduction. As a result of the Company's research and development efforts, it
has introduced a number of new PLD families, such as the FLEX 6000, FLEX 10KE,
FLEX 10KA, MAX 3000A, MAX 7000A, MAX 7000B, APEX 20K and APEX 20KE device
families. The Company has also redesigned a number of its products to
accommodate their manufacture on new wafer fabrication processes. In 1999, the
Company also released Quartus, its fourth generation software. Additionally, the
Company typically releases new versions of its proprietary software on a
quarterly basis.

The Company's research and development expenditures in 1999, 1998 and 1997, were
$86.1 million, $59.9 million and $54.4 million, respectively. The Company has
not capitalized research and development or software costs to date. The Company
intends to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development in
order to continue to develop new products and achieve market acceptance for such
products, particularly in light of the industry pattern of short product life
cycles and increasing competition within the CMOS logic market. Even if such
goals are accomplished, there can be no assurance that these products will
achieve significant market acceptance. If the Company were unable to
successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance
its existing products, its future operating results would be adversely affected.

PATENTS AND LICENSES

The Company owns numerous United States patents and has additional pending
United States patent applications on its semiconductor products. The Company
also has technology licensing agreements with Vantis, Cypress and Intel, giving
the Company royalty-free rights to design, manufacture and package products
using certain patents they control.

Although the Company's patents and patent applications may have value in
discouraging competitive entry into the Company's market segment and the Company
believes that its current licenses will assist it in developing additional
products, there can be no assurance that any valuable new patents will be
granted to the Company, that the Company's patents will provide meaningful
protection from competition or that any additional products will be developed
based on any of the licenses that the Company currently holds. The Company
believes that its future success will depend primarily upon the technical
competence and creative skills of its personnel, rather than on its patents,
licenses, or other proprietary rights.

In the future, the Company may decide to incur litigation expenses to enforce
its intellectual property rights against third parties. There is no assurance
that any such litigation would be successful or that the Company's patents would
be upheld if challenged.

The Company, in the normal course of business, from time to time receives and
makes inquiries with respect to possible patent infringements. As a result of
inquiries received from third parties, it may be necessary or desirable for the
Company to obtain additional licenses relating to one or more of its current or
future products. There can be no assurance that such additional licenses could
be obtained, and, if obtainable, could be obtained on conditions which would not
have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results. In addition,
if patent litigation ensued, there can be no assurance that these third parties
would not succeed in obtaining significant monetary damages or an injunction
against the manufacture and sale of one or more of the Company's product
families.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1999, the Company had 1,398 regular employees. The success of
the Company is dependent in large part upon the continued service of its key
management, technical, sales and support employees and on its ability to
continue to attract and retain additional qualified employees. The competition
for such employees is intense and the loss of key employees could have an
adverse effect on the Company.
