  
Item 1: Business 

      Organized in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, develops, manufactures, markets and services integrated circuit fabrication equipment for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Customers for these products include semiconductor wafer manufacturers and semiconductor integrated circuit (or chip) manufacturers, who either use the semiconductors they manufacture in their own products or sell them to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. 

      Most chips are built on a silicon wafer base and include a variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple layers of wiring (interconnects). As the density of the circuit components increases to enable greater computing power in the same or smaller area, the complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating the formation of smaller structures and more intricate wiring schemes. To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit components are first created on the surface of the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and remove selected film layers. Similar processes are then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. A typical, simplified process sequence for building the wiring portion of chips involves initially depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer of circuit components using a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) system. An etch system is then used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To form the metal wiring, these openings and patterns are subsequently filled with conducting material using physical vapor deposition (PVD) and/or electrochemical plating (ECP) technologies. A chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) step then polishes the wafer to achieve a flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP steps are then performed to build up the layers of wiring needed to complete the interconnection of the circuit elements to form the chip. Advanced chip designs require about 500 steps involving these and other processes to complete the manufacturing cycle. 

      Applied operates in a single industry segment and currently manufactures systems that perform most of the primary steps in the chip fabrication process, including: atomic layer deposition (ALD), CVD, PVD, ECP, etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing (RTP), CMP, wafer metrology and inspection, and systems that generate, etch, measure and inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography process. Applied’s subsidiary AKT, Inc. (AKT) manufactures CVD systems and array testers for making flat panel displays (FPDs) used in notebook computers, desktop monitors, televisions and other applications. Applied also provides products and services to enhance manufacturing yields. 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      Most of Applied’s products are single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to a base platform. Each wafer is processed separately in its own environment, allowing precise control of the process, while the system’s multiple chambers enable simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing. Applied sells most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on four basic platforms: the Centura®, the Endura®, the Producer® and the Vantage®. These platforms currently support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies. 

      In fiscal 2004, Applied broadened its line of platforms to include Parallel Wafer ProcessingTM systems through its acquisition of Torrex Equipment Corporation (Torrex). The FlexStarTM system, used for CVD applications, is capable of processing up to 25 wafers at a time in a furnace environment. 

      Throughout its history, the semiconductor industry has migrated to increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant wafer size used for volume production today is 200mm, or eight-inch, wafers, but a substantial number of new fabs that are being built use 300mm, or 12-inch, wafers to gain the economic advantages of a larger surface area. Applied offers a comprehensive line of systems to support 200mm and 300mm wafer processing. 

      A majority of process steps used in chipmaking are performed to build the interconnect, a complex matrix of microscopic wires that carry electrical signals to connect the transistor and capacitor components of a chip. Customers are transitioning from using aluminum as the main conducting material for the interconnect to copper, which has lower resistance than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area. Applied is a leading supplier of systems for manufacturing copper-based chips, ranging from the systems to deposit dielectric, tantalum nitride barrier and copper materials to CMP systems to smooth these layers for optimized planarity. 

      Complementing the transition to copper to improve chip speed is the use of highly efficient low dielectric constant (low k) films to replace silicon dioxide as the insulator between the copper wiring structures. Applied leads the industry in providing low k dielectric systems that are used in volume production by a number of semiconductor manufacturers. 

      The transistor portion of the chip is another area in which semiconductor manufacturers are advancing their device designs to improve speed. Applied introduced several new products during fiscal 2004 for building smaller and faster transistors by expanding its offerings in ion implantation, epitaxial deposition and silicon nitride systems. 

Products 

      The following summarizes Applied’s portfolio of products and their associated process technology areas. 

 
  
 Deposition 

      Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a semiconductor. During deposition, a layer of either dielectric (material used as insulation between conductors) or electrically conductive (typically metal materials used to carry current) film is deposited or grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to perform the four main types of deposition: ALD, CVD, PVD and ECP. In addition, Applied’s rapid thermal processing systems can be used to perform certain types of dielectric deposition. 

 
  
 Atomic Layer Deposition 

      ALD is an emerging technology in which single layers of atoms are used to build chip structures. This technology enables customers to deposit thin layers of either conducting or insulating material with uniform coverage in very small areas. Applied offers ALD chambers for depositing tungsten and tantalum nitride films. The Applied Endura iCuBSTM product is the industry’s first system to integrate ALD and PVD chambers on a single platform for depositing critical barrier and seed layers in copper interconnects. The Applied Centura iSprintTM Tungsten system (iSprint) combines an ALD chamber, which deposits a tungsten nucleation film, with a CVD tungsten bulk fill process in one system. The iSprint is used to form contact structures that connect the transistors to the wiring areas of the chip. 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

 
  
 Chemical Vapor Deposition 

      CVD is used by customers to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric (highly efficient insulating materials), high k dielectric (electrical charge-storing materials), aluminum, titanium, titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and technologies: 

      The Applied Producer CVD system — This high-throughput platform features Twin-Chamber® modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer platform, giving it a maximum simultaneous processing capacity of six wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this platform. The Applied Producer Advanced Patterning FilmTM process is an innovative CVD hardmask film that enables customers to fabricate sub-50 nanometer (nm) transistor gates and contact structures using standard lithography. The Applied Producer DARC® 193 deposits a dielectric anti-reflective coating that provides the precise dimensional control and compatibility needed for fabricating interconnects and transistors using advanced lithography methods. 

      The Applied Centura Ultima HDP-CVD® system — High-density plasma CVD (HDP-CVD) is used to fill very small, deep spaces with dielectric film. One of the processes that can be performed on the system is fluorinated silicate glass (FSG), a film with higher insulating value than traditionally-used silicon dioxide material, that enables faster chip performance. The Applied Centura Ultima HDP-CVD product is used by a number of major semiconductor manufacturers for gap-fill applications, including the deposition of FSG in their advanced interconnect structures and deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures. 

      Low k Dielectric Films — Many semiconductor manufacturers are now incorporating new low k dielectric materials in their copper-based chip designs to improve interconnect speed. The Applied Producer Black Diamond® CVD low k system is being used by several customers in volume production to produce some of the industry’s most advanced devices. Using conventional CVD equipment, the Black Diamond product provides customers with a cost-effective way to transition to this new material. A complementary low k dielectric film, called the Applied Producer BLOkTM (Barrier low k), enables the complete, multi-layer dielectric structure to benefit from low k technology. 

      Epitaxial Deposition — Epitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an increasing number of semiconductor devices in both the wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed. The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce production costs. This system is also being used for silicon-germanium epi technology, which can reduce power usage and increase speed in certain types of advanced chips. For emerging transistor designs, the Company’s Applied Centura RP Epi system offers selective epi processes to enable faster transistor switching without the need to shrink the scale of the device. 

      Polysilicon Deposition — Polysilicon is a type of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure within the semiconductor device. The Applied Centura PolygenTM LPCVD (low pressure chemical vapor deposition) system is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that deposits thin, polysilicon films at high temperatures with high productivity and process control. A variant of the system, the Applied Centura Polycide LPCVD product, combines chambers for polysilicon and tungsten silicide deposition on the Centura platform in an integrated process to create transistor gate structures in memory chips. To address the challenging requirements of 130nm and below devices, the Applied Centura Gate Stack system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma nitridation (DPN) and RTP anneal on one platform to enable superior film quality and material properties. 

      In fiscal 2004, Applied added the FlexStarTM LPCVD system to its product portfolio through its acquisition of Torrex. The FlexStar system uses Parallel Wafer Processing technology to deliver high quality silicon films with high productivity. Combining short cycle times, single-wafer process flexibility and lower cost of ownership, this system provides customers with highly cost-sensitive thermal applications for transistor production. 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      Silicon Nitride Deposition — The Applied Centura SiNgen®Plus LPCVD system is a single-wafer, high-temperature system that deposits silicon nitride films in transistor-area applications. This system minimizes the amount of time the wafer is exposed to high temperatures and reduces particles while improving operating cost and productivity in critical transistor nitride layers for 130nm and below devices. The system also features the DPN chamber which uses a plasma process to incorporate a high concentration of nitrogen into the gate oxide to prevent leakage in devices with 90nm and below designs. 

      Tungsten Deposition — Tungsten is used in the contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of aluminum wiring. The Company has two products for depositing tungsten: the Applied Centura SprintTM Tungsten CVD system for 130nm and 90nm devices and the advanced Applied Centura iSprint ALD/ CVD system. The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on the same platform for 65nm and below applications. 

 
  
 Physical Vapor Deposition 

      PVD, also called sputtering, is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated toward a metal target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer. The Applied Endura PVD system offers a broad range of advanced deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys, cobalt, titanium/titanium nitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride, tungsten/tungsten nitride, nickel vanadium and copper (Cu). The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system, launched in fiscal 1998, is widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips. Using PVD technology, the system deposits critical layers that prevent copper material from entering other areas of the device and primes the structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk copper by electrochemical plating. 

      The Applied Endura system’s highly flexible, multi-chamber architecture allows the integration of multiple PVD processes or combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies on the same system. In addition to the integrated Applied Endura iCuBS ALD/ PVD system (discussed in the Atomic Layer Deposition section), the Applied Endura iLBTM (integrated liner barrier) system combines a PVD chamber for depositing titanium with a CVD chamber for titanium nitride deposition to form critical lining layers of interconnect structures. These structures are subsequently filled with tungsten, aluminum or other materials. In fiscal 2004, Applied introduced the Applied Endura2 platform, a new generation of its Endura platform, designed to extend the Endura into future chip generations. The Endura2 platform has 20 percent fewer parts and sets a new standard for design that emphasizes reliability, serviceability and overall equipment efficiency for 300mm high-volume manufacturing. 

 
  
 Electrochemical Plating 

      Electrochemical plating is a process by which metal atoms from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of an immersed object. Its main application in the semiconductor industry is to deposit copper in interconnect wiring structures. This process step follows the deposition of barrier and seed layers which prevent the copper from contaminating other areas of the device and improve the adhesion of the copper film. 

      The Applied SlimCellTM ECP (electrochemical plating) system offers a small-volume cell design that allows independent bath chemistry for multi-step processing. The system enables a reduction in defect levels compared to conventional large bath systems while reducing chemical consumption. 

 
  
 Etch 

      Etching is used many times throughout the semiconductor manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a full range of systems for etching dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the requirements of sub-100nm processing. 

      For dielectric applications, the Applied Centura eMax® system etches a broad range of films in the contact and interconnect regions of the chip. In fiscal 2003, Applied introduced a high-throughput Applied 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Producer Etch system that utilizes the Twin-Chamber Producer platform concept to target cost-sensitive dielectric etch applications in 90nm and below design geometries. To address advanced low k etch applications, the Applied Centura Enabler® Etch system performs etch, strip and clean steps in a single chamber. The Enabler’s all-in-one capability streamlines the process flow for 65nm and below chip designs and significantly reduces operating costs. 
      The Applied Centura DPS Etch systems are used to etch conducting films, such as metal and silicon materials, and offer customers the technology, productivity and reliability required for 100nm and below processing. The Applied Centura TransformaTM Etch patterning system combines silicon etch technology with integrated metrology capability to enable customers to improve process control, device yield and overall fab cycle time for building advanced transistor gate structures. 

 
  
 Ion Implantation 

      During ion implantation, silicon wafers are bombarded by a beam of ions, called dopants, that penetrate (or implant) the film surface to a desired depth. The implantation step is used during transistor fabrication to change electrical properties of a material and achieve a particular electrical performance. 

      Low-energy, high current implant technology is important to enabling the fabrication of smaller structures, which contributes to faster transistor performance. The Applied Quantum® X Implanter, introduced in 2004, provides chipmakers with a production-worthy, single-wafer, high-current implanter that enables transistor scaling to the 65nm node and below. The Quantum X system’s high tilt capability, together with its precise energy control and low defect levels, deliver the process technology needed to achieve the most difficult and critical implants required for 65nm and 45nm logic and advanced DRAM manufacturing. 

 
  
 Rapid Thermal Processing 

      RTP subjects a wafer to rapid bursts of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. RTP is used mainly for modifying the properties of deposited films. The Applied Centura Radiance®Plus and Applied Vantage RadiancePlus RTP systems feature the same advanced RTP technology with differing platform designs. While the multi-chamber Centura platform offers exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined 2-chamber Vantage platform is designed for dedicated high-volume manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no longer achieve with the necessary precision and control. 

 
  
 Chemical Mechanical Polishing 

      CMP removes material from a wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy and enables film layers to build with minimal height variations. The Company’s 200mm Applied Mirra® and Mirra Mesa® systems and 300mm Applied Reflexion® system have led the industry in CMP technology with important features such as integrated cleaning, film measurement and process control capabilities. In fiscal 2004, Applied launched a major breakthrough with its 300mm Applied Reflexion LK EcmpTM system. Introducing innovative, electro-chemical mechanical planarization (Ecmp) capability on Applied’s proven Reflexion LK platform, this new system provides a uniquely high-performance, cost-effective and extendible solution for copper/low k manufacturing at the 65nm node and below. The Ecmp system removes bulk copper at a high rate by electric charge, independent of downforce, making it ideal for fragile ultra-low k films. 

 
  
 Metrology and Wafer Inspection 

      Applied offers several types of products that are used to inspect the wafer during various stages of the fabrication process: 

 
  
 Critical Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs) 

      Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to form images of microscopic features, or critical dimensions (CDs), of a semiconductor wafer at extremely high magnification. Applied’s SEMs 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

provide customers with full automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring very small CDs. In 2004, the Company introduced its Applied VeritySEMTM Metrology system, which uses proprietary new SEM imaging technology to enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes. The VeritySEM measures transistor CDs with less than 5 angstrom precision — a requirement for 45nm device production — and incorporates automation and software advancements for significantly higher throughput in production. 
      DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as, particles, scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect detection system and then classify the defects to identify their source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied SEMVisionTM G2 Defect Analysis system enables customers to use this technology as an integral part of their production lines to analyze defects as small as 50nm with high productivity. The Applied SEMVision G2 FIB, introduced in 2004, integrates advanced defect review SEM capability with automated focused ion beam (FIB) technology in one system. The FIB provides a cross-sectional view of the defects reviewed by the SEM, enabling chipmakers to analyze the defects in minutes as part of their in-line review process. 

      The Applied BX-10 Implant/ Anneal Metrology system measures critical process parameters that directly affect transistor performance and provides users with monitoring capability for multiple device generations. 

 
  
 Wafer Inspection 

      Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on patterned wafers (wafers with circuit images printed on them) as they move between processing steps. Defects may include particles, open circuit lines, shorts between lines or other problems. The Applied ComPlus-EVTM Inspection system detects defects in devices with design rules of 90nm and below. Incorporating key advances in imaging technology, the system captures up to 50 percent more defects than the previous system with the high speed required for customers’ volume production lines. 

 
  
 Flat Panel Displays 

      The most advanced flat panel displays (FPDs) are manufactured using technologies similar to those for making semiconductors. One significant difference is the vastly larger area of the substrate (panel). The panels can be up to 60 times larger in area than today’s largest wafers (300mm diameter). New generation FPD fabs are being built primarily for manufacturing large-area flat panel liquid crystal display (LCD) television screens. 

      Applied’s wholly-owned subsidiary AKT supplies plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems and electron beam array testers to FPD manufacturers. Applied offers a range of systems that can process different substrate sizes to meet the industry’s requirements for ever larger substrates. In response to the growing demand for LCD televisions, Applied introduced its latest PECVD system in fiscal 2004, the seventh-generation (Gen 7) AKT-40K PECVD, which addresses FPD fab requirements for substrates measuring 1.8 meters by 2.2 meters. Complementing the PECVD system, AKT also introduced a Gen 7 electron beam test system, the AKT-40K EBT, which tests the substrates during production for defective pixels and other imperfections. 

 
  
 Mask Making 

      Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for the writing, etching, measurement and inspection of masks. 

Customer Service and Support 

      Applied Global Services plays a critical role in the Company’s ability to continuously satisfy its customers’ production requirements. Approximately 2,700 trained customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually located at or near customers’ fab sites and service over 17,000 installed Applied systems. 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      Applied offers a broad range of service products to maintain and service equipment in customers’ fabs. For example, with the Applied Total Parts Management® (TPM) program, the Company provides an inventory management service for spare parts used in Applied systems at a customer’s fab. A second product, the Applied Total Support Package® (TSP), is a comprehensive equipment service solution that includes parts management along with system cost and performance improvement targets for Applied equipment at the customer’s location. The Applied SparesSolutionsTM program is an on-line, customer support service that streamlines the procurement of spare parts. The Applied Total Kit ManagementTM program provides customers with a convenient, cost-effective way to manage their systems’ process kit service requirements. Applied also refurbishes and sells used Applied equipment. 

      Applied entered into several new agreements in 2004 as part of its strategic initiative to expand its fab service capabilities for customers. Applied and Brooks Automation, Inc., signed an agreement to provide on-site support and spare parts management for certain of Brooks’ factory automation hardware products. During 2004, Applied entered into other agreements with multiple companies to provide additional services and products, including fab-wide commodity consumables services and wafer reclaim services. On August  16, 2004, Applied announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire substantially all of the operating subsidiaries and businesses of Metron Technology N.V., which provides a wide range of outsource solutions to the semiconductor industry. 

Backlog 

      Applied’s backlog increased from $2.5 billion at October 26, 2003 to $3.4 billion at October 31, 2004. Applied manufactures its systems based on order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders for which written authorizations have been accepted and shipment dates within 12 months have been assigned or where shipment has occurred but revenue has not been recognized. In addition, backlog includes contractual service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months. Backlog adjustments for fiscal 2004 totaled $114 million, which consisted of cancellations, currency and other adjustments. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, Applied’s backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and/or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results of operations. 

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies 

      Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems in Austin, Texas. Applied also has manufacturing operations in Santa Clara, California; Hillsboro, Oregon; Horsham, England; and Rehovot, Israel. Manufacturing requires some raw materials, including a wide variety of mechanical and electrical components, to be manufactured to Applied’s specifications. Applied uses numerous companies to supply parts, components and subassemblies (parts) for the manufacture and support of its products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied has sought, and will continue to seek, to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by: (1) qualifying and selecting alternate suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the financial condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts; and (4) qualifying new parts on a timely basis. 

Research, Development and Engineering 

      Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued development of new manufacturing products for integrated circuit fabrication. Applied’s significant investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems and processes that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Product development and engineering organizations are located primarily in the United States, as well as in the United Kingdom and Israel, with process support and customer demonstration laboratories in the United States, the United Kingdom and 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Israel. In addition, Applied outsources certain RD&E activities, some of which are performed in other countries. 
      Applied invested $1.1 billion (21 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002, $921 million (21 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2003 and $992 million (12 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2004, in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to create new product lines and improve existing technologies and products. Applied has spent an average of 15 percent of net sales on RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials research and environmental control that have applications to its products. In fiscal 2004, Applied focused on developing systems for customers’ new chip designs, including systems to enable faster and denser transistor and interconnect structures with 65nm and below linewidths. 

Marketing and Sales 

      Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells its products worldwide through a direct sales force. For fiscal 2004, net sales to customers in each region as a percentage of Applied’s total net sales were: Taiwan 25 percent, Asia-Pacific (including China) 20 percent, Japan 17 percent, North America (primarily the United States) 17 percent, Korea 11 percent and Europe 10 percent. Applied’s business is usually not seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical, based on the capital equipment investment patterns of major semiconductor manufacturers. These expenditure patterns are based on many factors, including anticipated market demand and pricing for integrated circuits, the development of new technologies, factory utilization and global and regional economic conditions. 

      During fiscal 2004, more than 80 percent of Applied’s net sales were to regions outside of the United States. Managing Applied’s global operations presents challenges and involves uncertainties that may affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For further discussion, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Trends, Risks and Uncertainties — Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.” 

      Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic regions is included in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net sales to Intel Corporation represented 10 percent of Applied’s fiscal 2002 net sales. During fiscal 2003, two customers individually accounted for greater than 10 percent of net sales: net sales to Intel Corporation represented 13 percent of Applied’s net sales and net sales to Samsung America, Inc. represented 12 percent of Applied’s net sales. During fiscal 2004, no individual customer accounted for more than 10 percent of Applied’s net sales. 

Competition 

      The global semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid technological advancements and demanding worldwide service requirements. Applied’s ability to compete primarily depends on its ability to commercialize its technology and continually improve its products, processes and services, as well as its ability to develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors for succeeding in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment market include the product’s technical capability, productivity and cost-effectiveness, and level of technical service and support. The importance of each of these factors varies depending on the specific customer’s needs, including considerations such as the customer’s process application, product requirements, timing of the purchase and particular circumstances of the purchasing decision. The pace of technological change is rapid, with customers continually moving to smaller critical dimensions and larger wafer sizes and adopting new materials for fabricating chips. Existing technology can sometimes be adapted to the new requirements, but some of these new requirements may create the need for an entirely different technical approach. The rapid pace of technological change continually creates opportunities for existing competitors and startups, and can quickly diminish the value of existing technologies. 

      Substantial competition exists for each of Applied’s products. Competitors range from small companies that compete with a single product and/or in a single region to global companies with multiple lines of semiconductor processing products. Competitors in a given technology tend to have different degrees of market presence in various regional markets. Management believes that Applied is a strong competitor and 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

that its competitive position is based on the ability of its products and services to continue to address customer requirements. Success for Applied will require a continued high level of investment in RD&E and in marketing, sales and customer support activities. 
Patents and Licenses 

      Management believes that Applied’s competitive position is significantly dependent upon skills in research, development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing, and not just on its patent position. However, protection of Applied’s technological assets by obtaining and enforcing patents is important. Therefore, Applied has a practice to file patent applications in the U.S. and other countries for inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new developments. Although Applied does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied and the products made and sold under its patents taken as a whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual property, including trademarks, knowhow, trade secrets and copyrights. 

      Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when management determines that it is in its best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed to Applied for the life of the patents. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from and paid to third parties have not been and are not expected to be material in relation to the consolidated results of operations. 

      In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms and/or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

Environmental Matters 

      Two of Applied’s locations have been designated as environmental cleanup sites. In 1987, the United States Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations, in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named Applied as a “Responsible Party.” Cleanup activities at this site began in 1984 and were substantially completed in February 2002. The California Regional Water Quality Control Board has designated Applied as a “Discharger” with respect to another site in Sunnyvale, California. Although Applied was named a Discharger at the Sunnyvale site in 1997, as it currently owns the site in question, prior owners and operators are responsible for performing cleanup and monitoring activities. Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety programs that are primarily preventive in nature. Neither compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating discharge of materials into the environment, nor remedial agreements or other actions relating to the environment, has had, or is expected to have, a material effect on Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health and safety activities can be found on the Company’s web site at http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/environment.html. This report is updated periodically. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information contained on Applied’s website is part of this report or is incorporated by reference herein. 

Employees 

      None of Applied’s employees is represented by a trade union, and management considers its relations with employees to be good. In the high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon its continued ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. At October 31, 2004, Applied employed 12,191 regular employees and 769 temporary employees. 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Available Information 

      Applied’s website is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only; none of the information contained on Applied’s website is part of this report or is incorporated by reference herein. 
