ITEM 1.   BUSINESS  

 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

 

The statements in this report include forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as predictions of future events as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximately,” “intends,” “plans,” “pro forma,” “estimates,” or “anticipates” or the negative of these words and phrases or other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, our ability to be profitable, our revenues, depreciation and amortization, operating results; anticipated cash flows; capital expenditures; gross margins; adequacy of resources to fund operations and capital investments; customer and market acceptance of our AMD Opteron™ and AMD Athlon™ 64 microprocessors, and the AMD64 technology upon which they are based; customer and market acceptance of FASL LLC’s Spansion™ Flash memory products based on MirrorBit™ and floating gate technology; the ability to produce these products in the volumes required by the market at acceptable yields and on a timely basis; our and FASL LLC’s ability to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive; our and FASL LLC’s ability to transition to new products and technologies in a timely and effective way; our and FASL LLC’s ability to achieve cost reductions in the amounts and in the timeframes anticipated; our ability to produce microprocessors in the volume required by customers on a timely basis; our ability to maintain or improve average selling prices of our products despite aggressive marketing and pricing strategies of our competitors; our ability, and the ability of third parties, to provide timely infrastructure solutions, such as motherboards and chipsets, to support our microprocessors; the process technology transitions in our wafer fabrication facilities located in Dresden, Germany (Fab 30) and FASL LLC’s wafer fabrication facilities in Austin, Texas (Fab 25) and in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan (JV1, JV2 and JV3); and the financing and construction of our 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility (Fab 36) in Dresden, Germany. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see the “Financial Condition” and “Risk Factors” sections set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” beginning on page 20 below and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission reports and filings. 

 

General 

 

We are a semiconductor manufacturer with manufacturing facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia and sales offices throughout the world. We design, manufacture and market industry-standard digital integrated circuits that are used in many diverse product applications such as desktop and mobile personal computers, or PCs, workstations, servers, communications equipment and automotive and consumer electronics. Our products include microprocessors, Flash memory devices and embedded microprocessors for personal connectivity devices, which we refer to as our Personal Connectivity Solutions, or PCS, products. 

 

Developments in 2003 

 

During 2003, we endeavored to position our company to take advantage of anticipated growth opportunities within the semiconductor market and anticipated increased demand for semiconductor products in 2004. In April 2003, we introduced our AMD Opteron microprocessors for servers and workstations, and in September 2003, we introduced our AMD Athlon 64 microprocessors for desktop and mobile PCs. We designed these high-performance microprocessors for both 32-bit and 64-bit processing, enabling users to protect their information technology investments by continuing to use their 32-bit software applications while implementing 64-bit software applications on the timetable of their choice. 

 

1 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
In order to meet anticipated demand for these and other advanced microprocessor products, we are constructing a new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility. This facility, Fab 36, will be located in Dresden, Germany, adjacent to our existing manufacturing facility, Fab 30. 

 

In addition, in order to respond more quickly to changes in market trends in the Flash memory market and improve efficiencies in the production, marketing and design of our Flash memory products, we and Fujitsu Limited formed a new entity named FASL LLC, effective June 30, 2003. We own 60 percent of FASL LLC while Fujitsu owns 40 percent. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2003, we began consolidating the results of FASL LLC’s operations. FASL LLC is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, and its manufacturing, research, test, and assembly operations are in the United States and Asia. FASL LLC engages in the research, development, manufacture, marketing, and promotion of Flash memory products, which it markets under the Spansion global product brand name. We and Fujitsu are the distributors of FASL LLC’s Spansion Flash memory products. As part of this transaction, we contributed to FASL LLC our Flash memory inventory, our manufacturing facility located in Austin, Texas, known as Fab 25, our Flash memory research and development facility in Sunnyvale, California, known as the Submicron Development Center, or SDC, and our Flash memory assembly and test operations in Thailand, Malaysia and China. Fujitsu contributed its Flash memory division, including related inventory, cash, and its Flash memory assembly and test operations in Malaysia. In addition, both we and Fujitsu contributed our respective investments in our previous manufacturing joint venture, Fujitsu AMD Semiconductor Limited, located in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan, which became part of a wholly owned subsidiary of FASL LLC named FASL JAPAN LIMITED, or FASL JAPAN. In this report we refer to the previous manufacturing joint venture with Fujitsu as the Manufacturing Joint Venture. 

 

As part of the transaction, we entered into various contracts with FASL LLC and Fujitsu, including a non-competition agreement pursuant to which we agreed that we would not engage in the development, production, manufacture, marketing, distribution, promotion or sale of Flash memory devices outside of FASL LLC; a patent cross-license agreement pursuant to which each party has been granted a non-exclusive license under the other party’s respective licensed patents for the manufacture and sale of semiconductor products worldwide; services agreements pursuant to which we agreed to provide, among other things, certain information technology, facilities, logistics, legal, tax, finance, human resources, and environmental, health and safety services to FASL LLC; and a distribution agreement pursuant to which we obtained the right to distribute Spansion Flash memory products. The term of the distribution agreement is indefinite, subject to termination by mutual agreement of the parties, upon failure to cure a material breach or upon termination of the limited liability company operating agreement that governs FASL LLC, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. 

 

Additional Information 

 

We were incorporated under the laws of Delaware on May 1, 1969. Our mailing address and executive offices are located at One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, California 94088, and our telephone number is (408) 749-4000. With the exception of the sections of this report that discuss financial data, which is presented on a consolidated basis, references in this report to “AMD,” “we” and “us” include our subsidiaries, but, unless otherwise indicated, do not include FASL LLC or its subsidiaries. We post on the Investor Relations page of our Web site, www.amd.com, our filings with the SEC, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller and other senior finance executives, our other Code of Ethics entitled “Worldwide Standards of Business Conduct,” for our directors and employees, and the charters of our Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Compensation Committees. Our filings with the SEC are posted as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed electronically with the SEC. You can also obtain copies of these documents by writing to us at: Corporate Secretary, AMD, One AMD Place, M/S 68, Sunnyvale, California 94088, or emailing us at Corporate.Secretary@amd.com. All such documents and filings are available free of charge. 

 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
For financial information about geographic areas and for segment information with respect to sales and operating results, refer to the information set forth in Note 9 of our consolidated financial statements on page 83, below. 

 

For a discussion of the risk factors related to our business operations, please see the sections entitled, “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” above, and the “Risk Factors” and “Financial Condition” sections set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” beginning on page 20, below. 

 

The Integrated Circuit Market 

 

The integrated circuit market has grown dramatically over the past two decades, driven primarily by the demand for electronic business and consumer products. Today, virtually all electronic products use integrated circuits, including PCs and related peripherals, wired and wireless voice and data communications and networking products, including cellular phones, facsimile and photocopy machines, printers, home entertainment equipment, industrial control equipment and automobiles. 

 

The market for integrated circuits can be divided into separate markets for digital and analog devices. We participate in the market for digital integrated circuits. The three types of digital integrated circuits used in most electronic systems are: 

 

  •   microprocessors, which are used for control and computing tasks, and complementary chipset devices, which perform essential logic functions that support the microprocessors;  

 

  •   memory circuits, which are used to store data and programming instructions; and  

 

  •   logic circuits, which are employed to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals.  

 

Within the digital integrated circuit market, we participate primarily in the microprocessor and Flash memory markets. In addition, we participate in the embedded processor market for personal connectivity devices. 

 

Computation Products 

 

The Microprocessor Market 

 

A microprocessor is a silicon integrated circuit that serves as the central processing unit, or CPU, of a computer. It generally consists of millions of transistors that process data and control other devices in the system, acting as the brain of the computer. The performance of a microprocessor is typically a critical factor impacting the performance of a PC and other similar devices. The indicators of microprocessor performance are work-per-cycle, or how many instructions are executed per cycle, and clock speed, representing the rate at which its internal logic operates, measured in units of hertz, or cycles processed per second. Other factors of microprocessor performance include the amount of memory storage and the speed at which data stored in memory can be accessed. Developments in circuit design and manufacturing process technologies have resulted in dramatic advances in microprocessor performance over the past two decades. With the introduction of our AMD Athlon XP processor in October 2001, we began positioning our processors based on overall performance, which is a function of both architecture and clock speed. We believe overall performance is a better indicator of CPU capability than simply clock speed. 

 

Improvements in the performance characteristics of microprocessors and decreases in production costs resulting from advances in manufacturing process technology as well as a corresponding decrease in selling prices have increased the demand for microprocessors over time. The greatest demand for microprocessors today is from PC manufacturers. With few exceptions, these manufacturers require x86 microprocessors that are compatible with the Microsoft® Windows® operating system. 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
The microprocessor market is characterized by short product life cycles and migration to ever-higher-performance microprocessors. To compete successfully in this market, we must transition to new process technologies at a fast pace and offer higher-performance microprocessors in significantly greater volumes. We also must achieve manufacturing yield and volume goals while producing these microprocessors in order to sell them at competitive prices. For more information about competition in the microprocessor market, see the section entitled “Competition,” below. 

 

We believe that worldwide demand for PC microprocessors will increase in 2004 compared with 2003. Factors that we believe will stimulate growth in the demand for PC microprocessors include an anticipated replacement cycle for older PC systems, lower-priced PC systems, enhanced product features, strategic purchases of new PC systems to deploy new tools and technologies, and improved economic conditions. 

 

Microprocessor Products 

 

We currently offer microprocessor products for desktop and mobile PCs, servers and workstations. Our microprocessors are based on the x86 architecture. In addition, we design them based on a superscalar reduced instruction set computer, or RISC, architecture. RISC architecture allows microprocessors to perform fewer types of computer instructions thereby allowing the microprocessor to operate at a higher speed. We also design our microprocessors to be compatible with operating system software such as Windows XP, Windows 2000, Windows NT®, Windows 98 (and Windows predecessor operating systems), Linux, NetWare® and UNIX. 

 

Our microprocessors for desktop PCs consist of four product brands: AMD Athlon 64 FX, AMD Athlon 64, AMD Athlon XP, and AMD Duron™ processors. We introduced the first Windows-compatible, x86 architecture-based 64-bit PC processor, the AMD Athlon 64 microprocessor, in September 2003, an introduction date that we changed from our originally stated date due to a combination of factors, including the features and functionality of these new processors in comparison to our existing PC processors, AMD Athlon XP, the fact that demand for our AMD Athlon XP processors was greater than expected, and the state of the microprocessor market at the time the introduction was planned. AMD Athlon 64 processors are based on the AMD64 technology platform, which extends the industry-standard x86 instruction set architecture to 64-bit computing. We designed our AMD Athlon 64 processors to run both 32-bit and 64-bit applications simultaneously, enabling users to protect their information technology investments by continuing to use their 32-bit software applications while implementing 64-bit applications on the timetable of their choice. We design our AMD Athlon 64 processors for sophisticated PC users and businesses that seek to access large amounts of data and physical memory. Simultaneously with our introduction of the AMD Athlon 64 processor, we introduced the AMD Athlon 64 FX processor, designed specifically for gamers, PC enthusiasts and digital content creators who require products that can perform graphic-intensive tasks. We design our AMD Athlon XP processors for the value market and offer PC users and small to medium businesses affordable processors that can meet their core computing needs. We also design AMD Duron processors, which we sell primarily in cost-sensitive emerging markets. Most of our microprocessor product sales in 2003 were of our AMD Athlon XP microprocessors. 

 

Our microprocessors for the mobile computing market consist of mobile AMD Athlon 64 processors and AMD Athlon XP-M processors. Our original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers incorporate these processors into a variety of notebook designs, including full-size and thin-and-light notebooks. We have designed mobile processor products for high-performance computing and wireless connectivity. They feature advanced power management from AMD PowerNow!™ technology which offers reduced power consumption and extended system battery life. During 2003, we primarily provided mobile computing products for the full-size or desktop-replacement segment of the mobile computing market. Our strategy for 2004 is to expand our product portfolio to address the thin-and-light segment of the mobile computing market and increase our share in the full-size segment of this market. 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Our x86 microprocessors for servers and workstations consist of the AMD Opteron and AMD Athlon MP processors. A server is a powerful computer on a network that is dedicated to a particular purpose and stores large amounts of information and performs the critical functions for that purpose. A workstation is essentially a heavy-duty desktop, designed for tasks like computer-aided design. We introduced our first 64-bit microprocessor for servers and workstations, the AMD Opteron processor, in April 2003, an introduction date that we changed from our originally planned date due to a combination of factors, including the state of the microprocessor market at the time the introduction was planned and our plans to introduce these products on 130-nanometer silicon-on-insulator, or SOI, manufacturing process technology. Like the AMD Athlon 64 processors, the AMD Opteron processors for servers and workstations are based on the AMD64 technology and are designed to run both 32-bit and 64-bit applications simultaneously. AMD Opteron processors are the first processors to extend the industry-standard x86 instruction set architecture to 64-bit computing. AMD Opteron processors are available in one- to eight-way servers that can be used in a variety of server applications, including business processing (enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management, and supply chain management) and business intelligence. AMD Opteron processors are also available in one- to four-way workstation solutions that can be used in workstation applications such as engineering and digital content creation software, and other information technology infrastructure applications such as intensive Web serving and messaging. 

 

Our AMD Opteron and AMD Athlon 64 processors support HyperTransport™ technology, which is a high-bandwidth communications interface we developed, as well as integrated memory controllers that enable substantially higher performance than existing, non-integrated memory controller architectures. We expect our advanced architecture to provide users with even greater performance improvements as operating systems and software applications begin leveraging the benefits of our 64-bit architecture. To that end, in April 2002, we announced a collaboration with Microsoft to incorporate 64-bit support into the Windows operating system. Microsoft has indicated that they intend to release the 64-bit version of Windows XP in 2004. We believe that the backward compatibility of these processors will allow users to migrate more easily from current 32-bit operating systems and applications to future 64-bit operating systems and applications on a common hardware platform. 

 

We also sell chipset products and make available motherboard reference design kits, designed to support our microprocessors for use in PCs and embedded products. A chipset provides the interface between all of a PC’s subsystems and sends data from the microprocessor to all the input/output and storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse, monitor and hard drive. The primary reason we offer these products to our customers is to provide them with a solution that will allow them to use our microprocessors and develop and introduce their products into the market more quickly. We report the revenue from sales of our chipset products in our Computation Products segment. 

 

We believe the key factors impacting our ability to increase microprocessor revenues in 2004 are: our ability to increase market acceptance of our AMD Opteron and AMD Athlon 64 processors and to produce them in a timely manner on new process technologies, including 90-nanometer SOI technology, in the volume and with the performance and feature set required by customers; market acceptance of the newest versions of our AMD Athlon XP processors; growth in unit shipments of our microprocessor products; and our ability to maintain or increase average selling prices for our microprocessor products. 

 

In 2004, one of our goals is to increase market acceptance of our AMD64 technology, particularly in the enterprise segment. To that end we intend to focus on developing and introducing products for the server and workstation markets and increasing our share of these markets. Although we will continue to provide our AMD Athlon MP products pursuant to market demand, we intend to concentrate on developing and producing new versions of our AMD Opteron microprocessors for these markets. 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Memory Products 

 

Flash Memory Market 

 

Memory circuits store data and instructions and are characterized as either volatile or non-volatile. Volatile devices lose stored information after electrical power is shut off while non-volatile devices retain stored information. Volatile memory integrated circuits primarily consist of Dynamic Random Access Memory, or DRAM, devices and Static Random Access Memory, or SRAM, devices. Non-volatile memory integrated circuits include Flash memory, Read-Only Memory, or ROM, Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory, or EPROM, and Electrically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory, or EEPROM, devices. 

 

Flash memory devices have a size and cost advantage over EEPROM devices, which utilize a larger, more expensive memory cell. Flash memory devices also provide greater flexibility and ease of use when compared to other non-volatile memory devices, such as ROM and EPROM, because Flash memory devices can be electrically rewritten to update parameters or system software. ROM devices cannot be rewritten and EPROM devices require information to be erased using ultraviolet light before they can be rewritten. The Flash memory market has grown significantly in recent years. In particular, the increasing use and functionality of consumer electronics such as cellular phones, MP3 players, DVD players, digital cameras, and personal storage USB drives has contributed to an increasing demand for Flash memory devices. 

 

There are two major types of Flash memory employed in the non-volatile memory market today: Boolean logic-based NOR (Not Or) Flash memory and NAND (Not And) Flash memory. NOR Flash memory is generally more reliable than NAND and less prone to data corruption. NOR Flash memory is typically used to store program code in communication devices such as cellular telephones, and consumer products such as DVD players. NAND Flash memory has generally been less expensive to manufacture and is typically used in devices that require high-capacity data storage such as memory cards for digital cameras and MP3 players. Within the Flash memory market, we sell primarily NOR Spansion Flash memory-based products. In 2003, we also sold a very limited number of our EPROM devices. Sales of EPROM devices have been steadily declining for the past few years as customers switch over to Flash memory devices. In 2004, we will continue to sell our existing inventory of EPROM products. However, we expect these sales to be minimal and we do not intend to manufacture any new EPROM products in 2004. 

 

Flash Memory Products 

 

Our Spansion Flash memory products encompass a broad spectrum of densities and features to address the wireless mobile handset and embedded systems markets. These products are used in cellular telephones, consumer electronics, automotive electronics, networking equipment and other applications that require memory to be non-volatile and electrically rewritten. Our Spansion Flash memory products may be categorized into two main technologies: floating gate technology and MirrorBit technology. 

 

Spansion Flash memory products using conventional floating gate technology are available in densities from one megabit to 128 megabits. A conventional memory cell includes a transistor having a source and a drain and a control gate to regulate the current flow between the source and the drain, thereby defining whether the memory cell stores a “0” bit or a “1” bit. Floating gate technology is memory cell technology in which the memory cell includes a “floating gate” between the control gate and the source and drain. Adding or removing charge from the floating gate changes the threshold voltage of the cell. Products using conventional floating gate technology are typically used for their non-volatile code storage and code execution as well as their ease of in-system re-programmability. These products are designed to meet the requirements of a range of Flash memory market segments, from the low-end, low-density value segment to the high-performance, high-density wireless segment. 

 

Spansion Flash memory products also include devices based on MirrorBit technology, a proprietary technology that stores two bits of data in a single memory cell thereby doubling the density, or storage capacity, of each memory cell. Products based on MirrorBit technology require fewer wafer fabrication process steps to 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
manufacture and have simpler layouts compared to products based on single-bit-per-cell or multi-level-cell floating gate technology. As a result, MirrorBit technology can contribute to a smaller die size and improved production yields. Due to these characteristics, for a given density, products based on MirrorBit technology can be less expensive to produce than products based on conventional floating gate single-bit-per-cell or multi-level cell technology. We believe MirrorBit technology gives us an advantage in the manufacturing of these products equivalent to one lithography node over multi-level cell solutions and two lithography nodes over single-bit-per-cell solutions. Lithography is a process technology used in the manufacture of integrated circuits. In addition, we believe MirrorBit technology enables the production of NOR Flash memory products at higher densities than are commercially viable using single bit-per-cell technology. 

 

Spansion Flash memory products using first-generation MirrorBit technology are manufactured using 230-nanometer process technology and are available in densities ranging from 16 megabits through 256 megabits. In September 2003, FASL LLC announced the availability of engineering samples of the first 512 megabit NOR Flash memory product based on its second-generation MirrorBit technology. We believe this high density product will enable designers to create large memory arrays, simplify existing designs by using only a single device, and reduce costs by migrating from floating gate technology-based products. In 2004, products based on second-generation MirrorBit technology will be manufactured using primarily 110-nanometer process technology. We believe manufacturing costs for NOR Flash memory products based on MirrorBit technology that are manufactured using 110-nanometer process technology are similar to or lower than manufacturing costs for comparable products based on conventional floating gate multi-level cell technology that are manufactured using 90-nanometer process technology. 

 

Spansion Flash memory products implement different architectures to address different customer requirements. These different architectures may be supported on floating gate technology as well as on MirrorBit technology. We address demand for lower-performance customer applications by providing asynchronous access products with slower read speeds. We address demand for higher-performance products by providing advanced architecture products that support faster burst-mode and page-mode read interfaces. Burst-mode products allow fast access to data in a continuous sequential operation, while page-mode products allow fast random access to data within a page. The wireless market in particular currently demands such high-performance solutions. We intend to continue to address the growing performance requirements of our customers in this market by expanding our product offerings and improving our products’ performance. In addition to a high-performance architecture, Spansion products may also include benefits such as Advanced Sector Protection, which improves security, and simultaneous read/write, which improves system performance. 

 

We also offer Flash memory in multi-chip packages, or MCPs, across a range of densities. Currently, the largest consumers of Flash memory devices are mobile phone manufacturers. Mobile phone manufacturers require devices that allow them to make feature-rich products in small packages. They are especially interested in MCPs due to the single, space-saving package, low power consumption, and high performance. Our MCP products incorporate Spansion Flash memory devices ranging from 16 megabits to 128 megabits and non-Flash memory die, such as SRAM devices, which FASL LLC purchases from outside vendors, ranging from two megabits to 64 megabits. We intend to continue to provide new products for this growing market, and we expect sales of MCP products to increase in 2004 in comparison to 2003. 

 

We believe that the key factors impacting our ability to increase Flash memory product revenues in 2004 are the continued market acceptance of MirrorBit technology, our ability to maintain or increase average selling prices for Spansion Flash memory products, and growth in unit shipments of these Flash memory products. In addition, FASL LLC’s ability to successfully transition to 110-nanometer process technologies for specified Flash memory products and its ability to successfully increase manufacturing capacity at its fabrication, assembly and test facilities are key factors impacting our ability to increase Flash memory product revenues. 

 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Other Products and Services 

 

Personal Connectivity Solutions Products 

 

We offer low-power, high-performance embedded microprocessor products for personal connectivity devices. Our PCS products include low-power x86 and MIPS® architecture-based embedded processors. We design these processors to address customer needs in the non-PC Internet appliance market. Typically these processors are used in products that require high to moderate levels of performance where key features include reduced cost, mobility and compactness. Products that use our embedded processors also often have limited user interfaces and programmability when compared to PCs and servers. 

 

In August 2003, we acquired the Geode™ family of microprocessor products from National Semiconductor Corporation. The Geode technology integrates complex functionality, such as processing, system logic, graphics, and audio and video decompression on to one integrated device. AMD Geode microprocessors are based on the x86 architecture and are optimized for power and performance. We target our AMD Geode processors for four main market segments: computer systems commonly referred to as “enterprise-thin clients” with low power consumption and minimal memory that leverage application software from a centralized server; low-cost network appliances; set-top boxes; and personal access devices. With the AMD Geode family of microprocessors, we are able to extend the range of our x86-based product offerings to serve markets from embedded appliances to high-end servers. 

 

We develop our AMD Alchemy™ embedded processors for portable media players, Internet access points, and gateways in which low-power consumption is a key factor. All of these products have an architecture that provides a 32-bit MIPS instruction set. They support Microsoft Windows, CE.NET, Linux, VxWorks, and other operating systems. 

 

We believe that our PCS products offer our customers faster time to market and lower product costs. Our strategy is to continue providing cost-effective PCS products that our customers can deploy quickly in their applications. 

 

Foundry Services 

 

Prior to 2003, we provided foundry services to our former voice communications products subsidiary, Legerity, Inc., and to our former programmable logic devices subsidiary, Vantis Corporation. We had no revenue from these services in 2003 and will not have any revenue for these services in the future. 

 

Research and Development; Manufacturing Process Technology 

 

Manufacturing process technology is a key determinant in the improvement of most semiconductor products. Each new generation of manufacturing process technology has resulted in products with greater performance. We have devoted significant resources to developing and improving manufacturing process technologies used in the production of our products. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to maintain our process technology leadership. In particular, we have made and continue to make significant investments in manufacturing process technologies and in strategic relationships with industry-leading companies relating to manufacturing process technology development. We may not realize our expected return on these investments if we fail to increase market acceptance for our products, if the market for our microprocessor or Flash memory products should significantly deteriorate or if we are unable to realize the full benefit of our strategic relationships. In addition, if we are unable to remain competitive with respect to process technology, we will be materially and adversely affected. 

 

Our efforts concerning research and development of advanced process technologies are focused on logic technology used for manufacturing our microprocessors. FASL LLC’s efforts concerning research and development of advanced process technologies are focused on non-volatile memory technology used for 

 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
manufacturing Spansion Flash memory products. In December 2002, we executed an agreement with IBM to jointly develop new logic process technologies, particularly 65- and 45-nanometer technologies to be implemented on 300-millimeter silicon wafers, for use in producing future high-performance microprocessor products. The joint development agreement terminates on December 31, 2005 and may be extended by the mutual agreement of the parties. The agreement can also be terminated immediately by either party if the other party permanently ceases doing business, becomes bankrupt or insolvent, liquidates or undergoes a change of control, or terminated upon 30 days written notice upon a failure to perform a material obligation thereunder. The new process technologies are being developed at an IBM facility in New York and are aimed at improving microprocessor performance and reducing power consumption. The new process technologies will be based on advanced structures and materials such as high-speed SOI transistors, copper interconnects and improved “low-k dielectric” insulation. During 2002 and 2003, we paid approximately $190 million to IBM in connection with agreements and services related to research and development activities. In addition, in December 2003, we entered into license and consulting services agreements with IBM pursuant to which we licensed technology and know-how developed by IBM in connection with manufacturing products on 300-millimeter silicon wafers. In addition, some development work for logic process technologies took place at Fab 30. Research and development with respect to non-volatile memory technology used for manufacturing Spansion Flash memory products is conducted primarily at FASL LLC’s SDC facility located in Sunnyvale, California and at its facilities in Japan. Currently, FASL LLC is developing new non-volatile memory process technology, including 90-nanometer floating gate technology and 90-nanometer MirrorBit technology utilizing three-layer copper interconnect. 

 

Our expenses for research and development were $852 million in 2003, $816 million in 2002, and $651 million in 2001. These expenses represented 24 percent of consolidated net sales in 2003, 30 percent of consolidated net sales in 2002, and 17 percent of consolidated net sales in 2001. 

 

As of year-end 2003, all of our microprocessors were manufactured using our 130-nanometer process technology on 200-millimeter wafers at Fab 30. In 2004, we expect to convert our microprocessor manufacturing to primarily 90-nanometer process technology. We believe that use of 90-nanometer technology will allow us to provide products that are higher performing, use less power, and that cost less to manufacture. 

 

In November 2003, we announced our intention to construct and facilitize a 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility, Fab 36. Fab 36 will be owned by a newly created partnership named AMD Fab 36 Limited Liability Company & Co. KG, or AMD Fab 36, and will be located in Dresden, Germany, adjacent to Fab 30. We control the management of AMD Fab 36 through a wholly owned Delaware subsidiary, AMD Fab 36 LLC, which is a general partner of AMD Fab 36. We expect that Fab 36 will produce future generations of our microprocessor products, and that it will be in volume production in 2006. We believe using 300-millimeter wafers will decrease the manufacturing costs for certain of our microprocessor products and increase our capacity for producing these products because it allows us to produce more equivalent chips per wafer than 200-millimeter wafers. 

 

FASL LLC’s Flash memory device production at year-end 2003 was on 130-, 170-, 230- and 320-nanometer process technologies. During 2004, FASL LLC intends to transition some of its Flash memory devices to production on 110-nanometer process technology with the goal that by the end of 2004, Fab 25 and JV3 will employ mostly 110-nanometer technology. In addition, we believe that the demand for our Flash memory products will increase in 2004. Therefore, FASL LLC intends to increase manufacturing capacity at its wafer fabrication facilities. 

 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Manufacturing, Assembly and Test Facilities 

 

Our microprocessor fabrication and FASL LLC’s Flash memory fabrication is conducted at the facilities described in the chart below: 

 

       
Facility Location    Wafer Size

(Diameter in
Inches)
    Production

Technology

(in Nanometers)
    Approximate

Clean Room

(Square Footage)
 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Computation Products
                
Dresden, Germany
                
Fab 30
    8    130    150,000 
    
Flash Memory Products
                
Austin, Texas
                
Fab 25
    8    130 and 170    120,000 
Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan
                
JV1
    8    230 and 320    70,000 
JV2
    8    230    91,000 
JV3
    8    130 and 170    118,000 

 

We also have foundry arrangements with third parties for the production of our Personal Connectivity Solutions and chipset products. 

 

The current assembly and test facilities for our microprocessor products are described in the chart set forth below: 

 

      
Facility Location    Approximate
Facility

Square Footage
     Activity 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Penang, Malaysia
    239,000 (1)   Assembly & Test 
Singapore
    234,000 (2)   Test 

 

(1)   Of the total 239,000 square feet, approximately 127,000 square feet is devoted to administrative offices.  
(2)   Of the total 234,000 square feet, approximately 40,000 square feet is devoted to administrative and sales offices.  

 

Some assembly and final testing of our microprocessor products is also performed by subcontractors in the United States and Asia. 

 

The current assembly and test facilities for FASL LLC’s Spansion Flash memory products are described in the chart set forth below: 

 

     
Facility Location    Approximate

Assembly & Test

Square Footage
    Activity 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Bangkok, Thailand
    78,000    Assembly & Test 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
    71,300    Assembly & Test 
Penang, Malaysia
    71,000    Assembly & Test 
Suzhou, China
    30,250    Assembly & Test 

 

Some assembly and final testing of FASL LLC’s products is performed by subcontractors in Asia, including Fujitsu’s final assembly and testing facility in Kyushu, Japan. 

 

The political and economic risks associated with operations in foreign countries include: 

 

  •   expropriation;  

 

  •   changes in a specific country or region’s political or economic conditions;  

 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
  •   trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;  

 

  •   difficulty in protecting our intellectual property;  

 

  •   changes in foreign currency exchange rates and currency controls, which may impact, among other things our gross margins;  

 

  •   changes in freight and interest rates;  

 

  •   disruption in air transportation between the United States and our overseas facilities; and  

 

  •   loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs.  

 

In 2004, we plan to make additional capital investments in our assembly and test facilities. 

 

Certain Material Agreements.    Descriptions of certain material contractual relationships we have relating to FASL LLC are set forth on page 2, above, and page 14, below, and relating to Fab 30 are set forth on page 34, below. A description of our principal contractual relationships with IBM is set forth on page 9, above. 

 

Competition 

 

The integrated circuit industry is intensely competitive. Products compete on performance, quality, reliability, price, adherence to industry standards, software and hardware compatibility, marketing and distribution capability, brand recognition and availability. Technological advances in the industry result in frequent product introductions, regular price reductions, short product life cycles and increased product capabilities that may result in significant performance improvements. 

 

In each area of the digital integrated circuit markets in which we participate, we face competition from different companies. 

 

Competition in the Microprocessor Market 

 

Intel has dominated the market for microprocessors used in desktop and mobile PCs for many years. Intel is also a significant competitor in the server segment of the microprocessor market. Because of its dominant position, Intel has also been able to control x86 microprocessor and PC system standards and dictate the type of products the microprocessor market requires of Intel’s competitors. In addition, Intel’s significant financial resources allow it to market its products aggressively, to target our customers and our channel partners with special incentives, and to discipline customers who do business with us. These aggressive activities can result in lower unit sales and average selling prices for us and adversely affect our margins and profitability. Intel also exerts substantial influence over PC manufacturers and their channels of distribution through the “Intel Inside” brand program and other marketing programs. As long as Intel remains in this dominant position, we may be materially and adversely affected by its: 

 

  •   pricing and allocation strategies and actions;  

 

  •   product mix and introduction schedules;  

 

  •   product bundling, marketing and merchandising strategies;  

 

  •   exclusivity payments to its current and potential customers;  

 

  •   control over industry standards, PC manufacturers and other PC industry participants, including motherboard, chipset and basic input/output system, or BIOS, suppliers; and  

 

  •   user brand loyalty.  

 

Intel also dominates the PC system platform. As a result, PC OEMs are highly dependent on Intel, less innovative on their own and, to a large extent, are distributors of Intel technology. In marketing our 

 

11 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
microprocessors to OEMs, we depend on third-party companies other than Intel for the design and manufacture of core-logic chipsets, graphics chips, motherboards, BIOS software and other components. In recent years, many of these third-party designers and manufacturers have lost significant market share to Intel or exited the business. In addition, these companies produce chipsets, motherboards, BIOS software and other components to support each new generation of Intel’s microprocessors, and Intel has significant leverage over their business opportunities. 

 

We do not currently plan to develop microprocessors that are bus interface protocol compatible with Intel microprocessors because our patent cross-license agreement with Intel does not extend to microprocessors that are bus interface protocol compatible with Intel’s sixth and subsequent generation processors. Thus, our microprocessors are not designed to function with motherboards and chipsets designed to work with Intel microprocessors. Our ability to compete with Intel in the market for microprocessors will depend on our ability to continue to develop relationships with infrastructure providers and ensure that these third-party designers and manufacturers design PC platforms to support new generations of our microprocessors. A failure of the designers and producers of motherboards, chipsets and other system components to support our microprocessor offerings, particularly our new AMD Athlon 64 and AMD Opteron processors, would have a material adverse effect on us. 

 

Similarly, we offer OEMs and partners motherboard reference design kits designed to support our processors. The primary reason we offer these products is to provide our customers with a solution that will allow them to use our microprocessors and develop and introduce their products in the market more quickly. We cannot be certain, however, that our efforts will be successful. 

 

We expect Intel to maintain its dominant position in the microprocessor market and to continue to invest heavily in research and development, new manufacturing facilities and other technology companies. Intel has substantially greater financial resources than we do and accordingly spends substantially greater amounts on research and development than we do. We expect competition from Intel to increase in 2004 and beyond to the extent Intel reduces the prices for its products and as Intel introduces new products. For example, in February 2004, Intel announced that it intends to introduce 64-bit processors for servers and workstations that will be able to run existing 32-bit software applications in mid-2004. We believe that these processors will compete with our AMD Opteron microprocessors. In addition, Intel announced that it will offer 64-bit processors for the desktop market and other market segments that will be able to run existing 32-bit software applications in a time frame based on both timing and availability of the infrastructure required to support them, and customer demand. These products would compete with our AMD Athlon 64 microprocessors. Moreover, Intel currently manufactures certain of its microprocessor products on 300-millimeter wafers using 90-nanometer process technology. Use of 90-nanometer technology can result in products that are higher performing, use less power and that cost less to manufacture. Use of 300-millimeter wafers can decrease manufacturing costs and increase capacity by yielding more equivalent chips per wafer than 200-millimeter wafers. We have not yet made comparable transitions at our microprocessor manufacturing facilities. As a result, we may be more vulnerable to Intel’s aggressive pricing strategies for microprocessor products. Intel’s strong position in the microprocessor market, its existing relationships with top-tier OEMs and its aggressive pricing strategies could result in lower unit sales and average selling prices for our products, which could adversely affect our revenues. 

 

Competition in the Flash Memory Market 

 

With respect to Flash memory products, our principal competitors are Intel, Samsung, Toshiba, STMicroelectronics N.V., Sharp Electronics Corporation, Renesas Technology, Silicon Storage Technology, and Macronix International. We expect competition in the market for Flash memory devices to increase in 2004 and beyond as existing manufacturers introduce new products and industry-wide production capacity increases. Furthermore, in 2003, NAND vendors gained an increasing share of the overall Flash memory market. If further significant improvements in NAND technology occur in the future, applications currently using NOR technology may transition to NAND technology. As a result, NAND vendors may gain a substantial share of the overall Flash memory market. 

 

12 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Competition With Respect to Our Other Products 

 

With respect to PCS products, our principal competitors are Hitachi, Intel, Motorola, Inc., NEC Corporation, Toshiba, Transmeta, and Via Technologies. We expect competition in the market for PCS devices to increase in 2004 as our principal competitors focus more resources on developing low-power embedded solutions. 

 

Marketing and Sales 

 

We market and sell our products, other than Flash memory products, under the AMD trademark. We employ a direct sales force through our principal facilities in Sunnyvale, California, and field sales offices throughout the United States and abroad, primarily Europe and Asia Pacific. We also sell our products through third-party distributors and independent representatives in both domestic and international markets pursuant to non-exclusive agreements. Distributors also sell products manufactured by our competitors. In 2003, one of our distributors, Avnet, Inc., accounted for approximately 13 percent of our consolidated net sales. Avnet primarily purchases our microprocessor products. Also in 2003, Fujitsu Limited accounted for approximately 13 percent of our consolidated net sales. Fujitsu primarily purchases Spansion Flash memory products from FASL LLC. No distributor accounted for ten percent or more of our consolidated net sales in 2002 and 2001. No OEM customer accounted for ten percent or more of our consolidated net sales in 2003, 2002 or 2001. 

 

FASL LLC’s Flash memory products are marketed and sold under the Spansion trademark. We and Fujitsu act as distributors of Spansion Flash memory products and receive a commission from FASL LLC. We distribute Spansion products in the same manner as we sell our other products, through our direct sales force and through third-party distributors and independent representatives. 

 

We market our products through our direct marketing and co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities include print and Web-based advertising as well as consumer and trade events and other industry and consumer communications. In 2003, we primarily focused our direct marketing activities on the launch of our AMD Opteron and AMD Athlon 64 microprocessor products and the AMD64 technology platform. In addition, we have cooperative advertising and marketing programs with our customers, including market development programs. Under these programs, eligible customers can use market development funds in partial reimbursement for advertisements and marketing programs related to our products. 

 

We intend to build upon our position as a global supplier of integrated circuits by expanding our focus to include emerging global markets. In 2003, we focused on expanding our participation in China’s microprocessor, embedded processor and Flash memory markets, and we expect to continue these efforts in 2004. For example, in order to strengthen and consolidate our efforts in China, effective in February 2004, we established a new entity, Advanced Micro Devices (China) Co., Ltd., which will serve as our regional headquarters in the region. We also established relationships with OEMs such as Dawning Information Industry Corp. Ltd., a server manufacturer in China. These activities expanded on our existing investments in China, including FASL LLC’s Flash memory assembly and test facility in Suzhou. 

 

Distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. Generally, we sell to distributors under terms allowing the distributors certain rights of return and price protection on any inventory of our products held by them. We defer the gross margin on these sales to distributors, resulting from both our deferral of revenue and related product costs, until the applicable products are re-sold by the distributors. The price protection and return rights we offer to our distributors could materially and adversely affect us if there is an unexpected significant decline in the price of our products. 

 

In 2003, international sales as a percent of net sales were 80 percent. Our international sales operations entail political and economic risks, including expropriation, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations, changes in freight rates and changes in rates and exemptions for taxes and tariffs. 

 

13 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Raw Materials 

 

Certain raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products and FASL LLC uses in the manufacture of its products are available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, we are dependent on key chemicals from a limited number of suppliers and rely on a few foreign companies to supply the majority of certain types of the integrated circuit packages we purchase. Similarly, FASL LLC purchases commercial non-Flash memory die, such as SRAM, from third-party suppliers and incorporates these die into its MCP products. Interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If we or FASL LLC were unable to procure certain of these materials, we or FASL LLC might have to reduce manufacturing operations. Such a reduction could have a material adverse effect on us. To date, neither we nor FASL LLC have experienced significant difficulty in obtaining the raw materials required for our manufacturing operations. 

 

In June 2002, we formed Advanced Mask Technology Center GmbH and Co., KG (AMTC) and Maskhouse Building Administration GmbH and Co., KG, (BAC), two joint ventures with Infineon Technologies AG and Dupont Photomasks, Inc., for the purpose of constructing and operating an advanced photomask facility in Dresden, Germany. Photomasks are used during the production of integrated circuits. The purpose of the AMTC is to conduct research, development and pilot production of optical photomasks for advanced lithography technology. In October 2003, the AMTC announced the official commencement of pilot production of optical photomasks. In 2004, we intend to procure advanced photomasks from the AMTC pursuant to the terms of our joint venture arrangement and use these photomasks in the manufacture of certain of our microprocessor products. 

 

Environmental Regulations 

 

Many aspects of our and FASL LLC’s business operations and products are regulated by domestic and international environmental regulations. These regulations include limitations on discharges to air and water; remediation requirements; product chemical content limitations; chemical use and handling restrictions; pollution control requirements; waste minimization considerations; and hazardous materials transportation, treatment and disposal restrictions. If we or FASL LLC fail to comply with any of the applicable environmental regulations we may be subject to fines, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. Existing or future regulations could require us or FASL LLC to procure expensive pollution abatement or remediation equipment, to modify product designs or to incur other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure to control the use, disposal or storage, or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 

Intellectual Property and Licensing 

 

As of March 1, 2004, we had over 5,900 United States patents and had over two thousand patent applications pending in the United States. In certain cases, we have filed corresponding applications in foreign jurisdictions. We expect to file future patent applications in both the United States and abroad on significant inventions, as we deem appropriate. FASL LLC also has patents and pending patent applications in the United States and Japan. In certain cases, FASL LLC filed corresponding applications in foreign jurisdictions. We expect FASL LLC to file future patent applications in both the United States and abroad on significant inventions, as it deems appropriate. 

 

In May 2001, we signed a ten-year cross-license agreement with Intel Corporation. In addition, we have entered into numerous cross-licensing and technology exchange agreements with other companies under which we both transfer and receive technology and intellectual property rights. As part of the FASL LLC transaction we entered into a patent cross-license agreement with FASL LLC whereby each party has been granted a non-exclusive license under the other party’s respective licensed patents for the manufacture and sale of 

 

14 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
semiconductor products worldwide. In addition, FASL LLC has granted us the right to sublicense FASL LLC patents and patent applications. FASL LLC has entered into a similar cross-license agreement (without the grant of sublicense rights) with Fujitsu Limited. These patent cross-license agreements terminate upon the later of July 1, 2013 or upon the transfer of all of the respective party’s ownership or economic interest in FASL LLC, unless earlier terminated upon 30 days notice following a change of control of the other party. We have also entered into a patent cross-license with Fujitsu Limited whereby each party has been granted a non-exclusive license under certain of the other party’s respective semiconductor-related patents. This patent cross-license agreement terminates upon the tenth anniversary of the agreement, unless earlier terminated upon 30 days notice following a change of control of the other party. 

 

Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, in the United States and abroad through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, we may not be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property or prevent others from independently developing similar technology. Any patent licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or rights granted thereunder may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not be issued. Despite our efforts to protect our rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other rights. In addition, it is difficult to cost-effectively monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis. 

 

From time to time, we have been notified that we may be infringing intellectual property rights of others. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, or at all. We could decide, in the alternative, to resort to litigation to challenge such claims. Such challenges could be extremely expensive and time-consuming and could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that litigation related to the intellectual property rights of us or others will always be avoided or successfully concluded. 

 

Backlog 

 

We manufacture and market standard lines of products. Consequently, a significant portion of our sales are made from inventory on a current basis. Sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or agreements covering purchases over a period of time, which orders or agreements may be revised or canceled without penalty. Generally, in light of current industry practice and experience, we do not believe that such agreements provide meaningful backlog figures or are necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. 

 

Employees 

 

As of March 1, 2004, we (excluding FASL LLC and its subsidiaries) employed approximately 7,400 employees, none of whom are represented by collective bargaining arrangements. Also, as of March 1, 2004, FASL LLC and its subsidiaries employed approximately 6,900 employees. In addition, approximately an aggregate of 180 individuals remained employed by us or Fujitsu but were made available on a full-time basis to FASL LLC or its subsidiaries. FASL LLC expects that substantially all of these individuals will become employees of FASL LLC or its subsidiaries in 2004 and 2005. Certain employees of FASL JAPAN are represented by a company union. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good and that FASL LLC’s relationship with its employees is good. 
