ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

                DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This business section contains  forward-looking statements. In some  cases,
you  can  identify  forward-looking  statements by  terminology  such  as "may,"
"will," "should,"  "expects," "plans,"  "anticipates," "believes,"  "estimates,"
"predicts,"  "potential," "continue"  or the  negative of  these terms  or other
comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. Actual events  or
results  may  differ  materially.  In evaluating  these  statements,  you should
specifically consider  various  factors,  including  the  risks  outlined  under
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis  of Financial  Condition and  Results of
Operations -- Risk Factors that May Affect Future Operating Performance" in Item
7 of this annual report.  These factors may cause  our actual results to  differ
materially from any forward-looking statement.

OVERVIEW

     Amkor  is the world's largest  subcontractor of semiconductor packaging and
test services. Amkor was incorporated in Delaware in 1997. The company has built
a leading position by:

     - Providing a  broad  portfolio  of packaging  and  test  technologies  and
       services;

     - Maintaining  a leading role in the  design and development of new package
       and test technologies;

     - Cultivating long-standing relationships with customers, including many of
       the world's leading semiconductor companies;

     - Developing expertise in high-volume manufacturing; and

     - Diversifying   our   operational   scope   by   establishing   production
       capabilities  in China,  Japan and  Taiwan, in  addition to long-standing
       capabilities in Korea and the Philippines.

     The semiconductors that we  package and test  for our customers  ultimately
become  components  in  electric  systems  used  in  communications,  computing,
consumer,  industrial,  automotive  and  military  applications.  Our  customers
include,   among   others,  Agilent   Technologies,  Atmel   Corporation,  Intel
Corporation, LSI  Logic Corporation,  Mediatek Inc.,  Philips Electronics  N.V.,
R.F.  Microdevices, ST Microelectronics PTE,  Sony Semiconductor Corporation and
Toshiba Corporation. The outsourced semiconductor  packaging and test market  is
very  competitive. We also compete with the internal semiconductor packaging and
test capabilities of many of our customers.

     Packaging and test are an integral part of the semiconductor  manufacturing
process. Semiconductor manufacturing begins with silicon wafers and involves the
fabrication  of  electronic  circuitry  into  complex  patterns,  thus  creating
individual chips  on the  wafers. The  packaging process  creates an  electrical
interconnect  between the semiconductor chip and the system board. In packaging,
the fabricated semiconductor wafers are cut into individual chips which are then
attached to a substrate and encased in a protective material to provide  optimal
electrical  and thermal performance. Increasingly,  packages are custom designed
for specific chips and specific end-market applications. The packaged chips  are
then  tested using  sophisticated equipment  to ensure  that each  packaged chip
meets its design specifications.

     We historically  marketed the  output  of fabricated  semiconductor  wafers
provided   by  a   wafer  fabrication  foundry   owned  and   operated  by  Anam
Semiconductor, Inc. (ASI). On February 28,  2003, we sold our wafer  fabrication
services  business to  ASI. Beginning  with the first  quarter of  2003, we will
reflect our wafer fabrication services  segment as a discontinued operation  and
restate our historical results.

     A  web site featuring current  information regarding Amkor Technology, Inc.
can be found on the internet at www.amkor.com.

                                        3
<PAGE>

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Semiconductor devices  are  the  essential building  blocks  used  in  most
electronic  products.  As semiconductor  devices have  evolved, there  have been
three important  consequences:  (1) an  increase  in demand  for  computers  and
consumer  electronics fostered  by declining prices  for such  products; (2) the
proliferation of  semiconductor  devices  into  diverse  end  products  such  as
consumer  electronics, communications equipment and  automotive systems; and (3)
an increase in the semiconductor content in electronic products.

TRENDS TOWARD OUTSOURCING

     Historically, semiconductor companies packaged semiconductors primarily  in
their  own  factories and  relied on  subcontract  providers to  handle overflow
volume. In recent  years, semiconductor companies  have increasingly  outsourced
their packaging and testing to subcontract providers for the following reasons:

  SUBCONTRACT PROVIDERS HAVE DEVELOPED EXPERTISE IN ADVANCED PACKAGING
  TECHNOLOGIES.

     Semiconductor    companies   are   facing   ever-increasing   demands   for
miniaturization,  higher  lead  counts  and  improved  thermal  and   electrical
performance  in  semiconductor  devices.  This  trend,  coupled  with increasing
complexity in the  design of  semiconductor devices has  led many  semiconductor
companies  to view packaging  as an enabling  technology requiring sophisticated
expertise and technological  innovation. Many semiconductor  companies have  had
difficulty  developing  the adequate  internal capabilities  and are  relying on
subcontract providers of  packaging and  test services as  a key  source of  new
package designs.

  SUBCONTRACT PROVIDERS CAN OFFER SHORTER TIME TO MARKET FOR NEW PRODUCTS
  BECAUSE THEIR RESOURCES ARE DEDICATED TO PACKAGING AND TEST SOLUTIONS.

     We  believe that semiconductor companies are seeking to shorten the time to
market for their new  products, and that having  the right packaging  technology
and  capacity  in  place is  a  critical  factor in  reducing  delays  for these
companies.

     Semiconductor companies frequently do not  have sufficient time to  develop
their  packaging  and  test  capabilities  or  the  equipment  and  expertise to
implement new packaging  technology in  volume. For  this reason,  semiconductor
companies are leveraging the resources and capabilities of subcontract packaging
and test companies to deliver their new products to market more quickly.

  MANY SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURERS DO NOT HAVE THE ECONOMIES OF SCALE TO OFFSET
  THE SIGNIFICANT COSTS OF BUILDING PACKAGING AND TEST FACTORIES.

     Semiconductor   packaging  is  a   complex  process  requiring  substantial
investment in specialized  equipment and  factories. As  a result  of the  large
capital investment required, this manufacturing equipment must operate at a high
capacity  level for  an extended  period of time  to be  cost effective. Shorter
product life cycles, faster introductions of new products and the need to update
or replace packaging  equipment to accommodate  new products have  made it  more
difficult  for semiconductor companies to  maintain cost effective manufacturing
and capacity utilization. Subcontract providers of packaging and test  services,
on  the  other  hand,  can use  their  equipment  to support  a  broad  range of
customers, potentially generating greater manufacturing economies of scale.

  THE AVAILABILITY OF HIGH QUALITY PACKAGING AND TESTING FROM SUBCONTRACTORS
  ALLOWS SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURERS TO FOCUS THEIR RESOURCES ON SEMICONDUCTOR
  DESIGN AND WAFER FABRICATION.

     With semiconductor  process technology  migrating to  larger  semiconductor
wafers   with  more  and  smaller  semiconductor  dies,  new  wafer  fabrication
facilities are requiring investments of $2 billion or more. Subcontractors  have
demonstrated their ability to deliver advanced packaging and test solutions at a
competitive  price. Accordingly,  semiconductor companies are  choosing to focus
their capital resources on core wafer fabrication activities rather than  invest
in advanced packaging and test technology.

                                        4
<PAGE>

  THERE ARE A GROWING NUMBER OF SEMICONDUCTOR COMPANIES WITHOUT FACTORIES, KNOWN
  AS "FABLESS" COMPANIES, THAT OUTSOURCE ALL OF THE MANUFACTURING OF THEIR
  SEMICONDUCTOR DESIGNS.

     Fabless  semiconductor  companies  focus exclusively  on  the semiconductor
design  process  and   outsource  virtually  every   significant  step  of   the
semiconductor  manufacturing  process.  We  believe  that  fabless semiconductor
companies will continue to be a significant driver of growth in the  subcontract
packaging and test industry.

     These  outsourcing  trends,  combined  with the  growth  in  the  number of
semiconductor devices  being  produced  and  sold,  are  increasing  demand  for
subcontracted  packaging and  test services.  Today, nearly  all of  the world's
major semiconductor companies use packaging and test service subcontractors  for
at least a portion, if not all, of their packaging and test needs.

COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS

     We believe our competitive strengths include the following:

  BROAD OFFERING OF PACKAGE DESIGN, PACKAGING AND TEST SERVICES

     Integrating  advanced semiconductor technology into electronic end products
often poses unique thermal and electrical challenges, and Amkor employs a  large
number   of  design  engineers  to  create  package  formats  that  solve  these
challenges. Amkor produces more  than 1,000 package  types, representing one  of
the  broadest  package  offerings  in  the  semiconductor  industry.  We provide
customers with  a wide  array of  packaging alternatives  including  traditional
leadframe,  advanced leadframe and laminate packages,  in both wirebond and flip
chip formats.  We are  also a  leading assembler  of complementary  metal  oxide
silicon  ("CMOS")  image sensor  devices used  in  digital cameras  and cellular
phones, and micro-electromechanical system ("MEMS") devices used in a variety of
end markets,  including automotive,  industrial and  personal entertainment.  We
also  offer an  extensive line  of services to  test digital,  logic, analog and
mixed signal semiconductor devices. We believe that the breadth of our packaging
and test services  is important  to customers seeking  to reduce  the number  of
their suppliers.

  LEADING TECHNOLOGY INNOVATOR

     We   believe  that  we  are  one  of  the  leading  providers  of  advanced
semiconductor packaging  and  test solutions.  We  have designed  and  developed
several  state-of-the-art leadframe  and laminate package  formats including our
MicroLeadFrame(TM), VisionPak(TM),  PowerQuad(R),  SuperBGA(R),  fleXBGA(R)  and
ChipArray(R)  BGA packages. To  maintain our leading  industry position, we have
more than 300  employees engaged  in research  and development  focusing on  the
design  and development of  new semiconductor packaging  and test technology. We
work  closely  with  customers  and  technology  partners  to  develop  new  and
innovative package designs.

  LONG-STANDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH PROMINENT SEMICONDUCTOR COMPANIES

     Our  customer base consists  of more than 400  companies, including most of
the world's largest semiconductor companies.  Over the last three decades  Amkor
has developed long-standing relationships with many of our customers.

  ADVANCED MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES

     We  believe  that our  company's manufacturing  excellence  has been  a key
factor in our success in attracting and retaining customers. We have worked with
our customers and our suppliers  to develop proprietary process technologies  to
enhance  our existing  manufacturing capabilities.  These efforts  have directly
resulted in reduced time  to market, increased  quality and lower  manufacturing
costs.  We believe our manufacturing cycle times are among the fastest available
from any subcontractor of packaging and test services.

                                        5
<PAGE>

COMPETITIVE DISADVANTAGES

     You should be  aware that our  competitive strengths may  be diminished  or
eliminated  due  to  certain  challenges  faced by  our  company  and  which our
principal competitors may not face, including the following:

     - High Leverage and Restrictive  Covenants -- Our substantial  indebtedness
       and  the covenants  contained in  the agreements  with our  lenders could
       materially restrict  our operations  and adversely  affect our  financial
       condition.

     - Risks  Associated  With  International  Operations --  We  depend  on our
       factories in the Philippines, Korea, Japan, Taiwan and China. Many of our
       customers' operations are also located outside of the U.S. To the  extent
       political  or economic  instability or military  actions occur  in any of
       these regions, our operations could be harmed.

     - Difficulties  Integrating  Acquisitions  --  We  face  challenges  as  we
       integrate  new  and  diverse  operations  and  try  to  attract qualified
       employees to support our expansion plans.

     In addition,  we and  our competitors  face a  variety of  operational  and
industry  risks inherent  to the  industry in which  we operate.  For a complete
discussion of  risks associated  with our  business, please  read  "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk
Factors  that May Affect Future Operating Performance"  in Item 7 of this annual
report.

STRATEGY

     To build  upon our  leading industry  position and  to remain  a  preferred
subcontractor  of semiconductor packaging and test services, we are pursuing the
following strategies:

  CAPITALIZE ON OUTSOURCING TREND

     We believe that while  the outsourcing trend has  been impacted during  the
recent   industry  downturn,  there  remains  a  long-term  trend  towards  more
outsourcing on the  part of  semiconductor companies. During  this downturn,  we
believe  that many  vertically integrated semiconductor  companies increased the
use of their in-house packaging and  test capabilities in order to minimize  the
impact  of  significant  excess  internal capacity  that  resulted  from sharply
lowered demand. At  the same time,  however, a number  of vertically  integrated
semiconductor  companies accelerated their use  of outsourcing. In January 2001,
we commenced  a  60% Amkor-owned  venture  with Toshiba  Corporation,  in  which
Toshiba  outsourced an entire packaging and test factory to the venture. We also
reached agreement in 2002 with Agilent Technologies, whereby Agilent has  ceased
the packaging and testing of certain package types for its semiconductor devices
used  in printers, and is now using Amkor as the exclusive provider of packaging
and test services for these package  types. We intend to continue to  capitalize
on  the expected growth  in the outsourcing of  semiconductor packaging and test
services.  We  believe  semiconductor  companies  will  increasingly   outsource
packaging and test services to companies who can provide advanced technology and
high-quality, high-volume manufacturing expertise.

  LEVERAGE SCALE AND SCOPE OF PACKAGING AND TEST CAPABILITIES

     We  are committed  to expanding  both the scale  of our  operations and the
scope of our packaging and  test services. We believe  that our scale and  scope
allow  us to provide cost-effective solutions  to our customers in the following
ways:

     - We have  the  capacity  to  absorb large  orders  and  accommodate  quick
       turn-around times;

     - We  use our size and industry position to obtain low pricing on materials
       and manufacturing equipment; and

     - We offer an industry-leading breadth  of packaging and test services  and
       can serve as a single source for many of our customers.

                                        6
<PAGE>

 MAINTAIN OUR TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP

     We  intend to continue  to develop leading-edge  packaging technologies. We
believe that our  focus on research  and product development  will enable us  to
enter  new markets early, capture  market share and promote  the adoption of our
new package  designs as  industry standards.  We seek  to enhance  our  in-house
research and development capabilities through the following activities:

     - Collaborating  with customers to  gain access to  technology roadmaps for
       next generation semiconductor  designs and to  develop new packages  that
       satisfy the requirements of those technology roadmaps;

     - Collaborating with companies, such as Toshiba Corporation, Cisco Systems,
       Ericsson  Corporation  and  Nokia  Group,  to  design  new  packages that
       function with the next generation of electronic products; and

     - Implementing new package  designs by entering  into technology  alliances
       and  by licensing leading-edge designs from  others. For example, we have
       entered into a strategic alliance with Sharp Corporation to promote  chip
       scale  packaging with fleXBGA(R). We have licensed from Tessera, Inc. its
       microBGA(R) design. We  have also licensed  flip chip package  technology
       from  LSI Logic Corporation  and wafer bumping  technology from Flip Chip
       Technologies  and  Unitive  Technologies.   In  general,  these   license
       agreements  are  non-exclusive, royalty-bearing  arrangements  with terms
       extending to various dates between 2008 and 2011.

 BROADEN THE GEOGRAPHICAL SCOPE OF OUR MANUFACTURING BASE

     Prior to  2001, our  company's manufacturing  operations were  centered  in
Korea  and the Philippines. In order  to diversify our operational footprint and
better serve our customers, we adopted  a strategy of expanding our  operational
base  to  key  microelectronic  manufacturing areas  of  Asia.  During  2001, we
commenced a joint  venture with Toshiba  Corporation in Japan,  we acquired  two
businesses  in Taiwan, and we established a new factory in China. Our goal is to
build operational  scale in  these new  geographic locations  and capitalize  on
growth opportunities in their respective markets.

 PROVIDE AN INTEGRATED, TURNKEY SOLUTION

     We  are  able  to provide  a  turnkey solution  comprised  of semiconductor
package design, packaging, test and drop shipment services. We believe that this
will enable customers  to achieve  faster time to  market for  new products  and
improved cycle times.

 STRENGTHEN CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS

     We  intend to further develop  our long-standing customer relationships. We
believe that because  of today's  shortened technology  life cycles,  integrated
communications  are crucial  to speed time  to market. We  have customer support
personnel located near  the facilities  of major customers  and in  acknowledged
technology  centers. These support personnel work closely with customers to plan
production for existing packages as well as to develop requirements for the next
generation of  packaging technology.  In addition,  we are  implementing  direct
electronic  links with our customers to enhance communication and facilitate the
flow of real-time engineering data and order information.

 PURSUE STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS

     We are evaluating candidates for strategic acquisitions and joint  ventures
to strengthen our core business and expand our geographic reach. We believe that
there are many opportunities to acquire the in-house packaging operations of our
customers and competitors. To the extent we acquire operations of our customers,
we  intend  to  structure  any  such  acquisition  to  include  long-term supply
contracts with those customers. In addition, we intend to enter new markets near
clusters of wafer foundries, which are large sources of demand for packaging and
test services.

                                        7
<PAGE>

PACKAGING AND TEST SERVICES

PACKAGING SERVICES

     We offer a broad range of package formats designed to provide our customers
with a full  array of  packaging solutions. Our  packages are  divided into  two
families:   traditional,  which   includes  principally   traditional  leadframe
products, and advanced packages, which includes principally advanced  leadframes
and laminate products.

     In   response  to  the  increasing   demands  of  today's  high-performance
electronic  products,  semiconductor  packages  have  evolved  from  traditional
leadframe packages and now include advanced leadframe, and laminate formats. The
differentiating characteristics of these package formats include (1) the size of
the  package, (2) the  number of electrical connections  the package can support
(3) the thermal and  electrical characteristics of the  package, and (4) in  the
case  of our System-in-Package  family of laminate  packages, the integration of
multiple active and passive components in a single package.

     As semiconductor  devices  increase in  complexity,  they often  require  a
larger number of electrical connections. Leadframe packages are so named because
they  connect the electronic circuitry on the semiconductor device to the system
board through leads  on the  perimeter of  the package.  Our laminate  products,
typically  called ball grid array or BGA, use balls on the bottom of the package
to create  the electrical  connections.  This array  format can  support  larger
numbers of electrical connections.

     Evolving  semiconductor technology  has allowed  designers to  increase the
level of  performance and  functionality in  portable and  handheld  electronics
products,  and this  has led  to the  development of  smaller package  sizes. In
leading-edge packages, the size of the  package is reduced to approximately  the
size of the individual chip itself in a process known as chip scale packaging.

     The  following table sets forth by product type, for the periods indicated,
the amount of our packaging and test net revenues in millions of dollars and the
percentage of such net revenues:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                               ------------------------------------------------
                                                    2002             2001             2000
                                               --------------   --------------   --------------
                                                            (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                            <C>      <C>     <C>      <C>     <C>      <C>
Traditional packages.........................  $  391    27.8%  $  439    32.8%  $  606    30.1%
Advanced packages............................     915    65.1      790    59.1    1,286    64.0
Test.........................................     100     7.1      108     8.1      118     5.9
                                               ------   -----   ------   -----   ------   -----
  Total packaging and test net revenues......  $1,406   100.0%  $1,337   100.0%  $2,010   100.0%
                                               ======   =====   ======   =====   ======   =====
</Table>

     We historically  marketed the  output  of fabricated  semiconductor  wafers
provided   by  a   wafer  fabrication  foundry   owned  and   operated  by  Anam
Semiconductor, Inc. (ASI). Our net revenues from wafer fabrication services were
$234 million,  $181  million  and  $378  million of  in  2002,  2001  and  2000,
respectively.  On  February 28,  2003, we  sold  our wafer  fabrication services
business to ASI. Beginning with the first  quarter of 2003, we will reflect  our
wafer  fabrication services segment as a  discontinued operation and restate our
historical results.

 TRADITIONAL PACKAGES

     Traditional, leadframe-based  packages are  the  most widely  used  package
family  in the semiconductor industry and  are typically characterized by a chip
encapsulated in a plastic mold compound  with metal leads on the perimeter.  The
most  common  traditional  leadframe package  is  the SOIC,  which  accounts for
approximately one half of all integrated  circuit (IC) packages produced by  the
semiconductor  industry. The  traditional leadframe  package family  has evolved
from "through  hole design,"  where the  leads  are plugged  into holes  on  the
circuit  board to "surface  mount design," where  the leads are  soldered to the
surface of the  circuit board. We  offer a wide  range of lead  counts and  body
sizes to satisfy variations in the size of customers' semiconductor devices.

                                        8
<PAGE>

 ADVANCED PACKAGES

  Advanced Leadframe Packages

     Through  a  process of  continuous engineering  and customization,  we have
designed several advanced leadframe package  types that are thinner and  smaller
than  traditional leadframe packages, with the ability to accommodate more leads
on the perimeter  of the package.  These advanced leadframe  packages also  have
superior  thermal and electrical characteristics,  which allow them to dissipate
heat generated by  high-powered semiconductor devices  while providing  enhanced
electrical  connectivity. We  plan to  continue to  develop increasingly smaller
versions of these packages to keep pace with continually shrinking semiconductor
device sizes and demand for miniaturization of portable electronic products.

     One  of   our  newest   advanced  leadframe   package  offerings   is   the
MicroLeadFrame(TM),  a family of "leadless"  advanced leadframe packages that is
particularly well suited for radio  frequency ("RF") and wireless  applications.
Our  smallest MicroLeadFrame package is only 2mm  square and can fit on the head
of a pin.

 Laminate Packages

     The laminate family  employs the ball  grid array design  which utilizes  a
plastic  or tape laminate substrate rather than a leadframe substrate and places
the electrical connections on the bottom  of the package rather than around  the
perimeter.

     The  ball grid array  format was developed  to address the  need for higher
lead counts required by advanced semiconductor  devices. As the number of  leads
on  leadframe packages  increased, leads  were placed  closer to  one another in
order to maintain the size of  the package. The increased lead density  resulted
in  electrical shorting problems,  and required the  development of increasingly
sophisticated  and  expensive  techniques   for  producing  circuit  boards   to
accommodate the high number of leads.

     The  ball grid  array format  solved this  problem by  effectively creating
leads on the bottom of the package in the form of small bumps or balls that  can
be  evenly distributed across the entire bottom surface of the package, allowing
greater distance between the individual leads.

     Our first package  format in this  family was the  plastic ball grid  array
(PBGA).  We have  subsequently designed or  licensed additional  ball grid array
package formats that have superior performance characteristics and features that
enable low-cost, high-volume manufacturing. These new laminate products include:

     - SuperBGA(R), which  includes a  copper  layer to  dissipate heat  and  is
       designed for low-profile, high-power applications;

     - microBGA(R),  which is designed to be  approximately the same size as the
       chip and uses  a thinner tape  substrate rather than  a plastic  laminate
       substrate; and

     - ChipArray(R)  BGA, in which  the package is  only 1.5 mm  larger than the
       chip itself.

     - Tape SuperBGA(R),  TapeArray(TM)  BGA  and Wafer  Level  Package  further
       reduce package size and increase manufacturing efficiency.

 Other Advanced Packages

     To  capitalize on an increasing customer demand for higher levels of system
integration, we created our "System-in-Package" ("SiP") modules. SiP modules are
integrated solutions that  use both advanced  packaging and traditional  surface
mount   techniques  to   enable  the   combination  of   otherwise  incompatible
technologies in a single, highly reliable package. Most of our SiP packages  are
laminate  based. By integrating  various system elements  into a single-function
block, the SiP module delivers space and power efficiency, high performance, and
lower production costs. Our SiP technology is being used to produce a variety of
devices including  power  amplifiers  for  cellular  phones,  memory  cards  and
sensors.

                                        9
<PAGE>

     In order to accommodate the emerging use of digital imaging in a variety of
consumer   products,  we  developed  VisionPak(TM),   a  family  of  CMOS  image
sensor-based packages  that can  be incorporated  in such  products as  cellular
phones, PDAs, digital cameras and PCs.

     We are also a leading outsourced provider of micro-electromechanical system
("MEMS")  based  packages that  are  used in  a  broad range  of  industrial and
consumer applications, including automobiles and home entertainment.

 TEST SERVICES

     Amkor provides a complete  range of test  solutions including wafer  probe,
final  test, strip test, marking, bake, drypack,  and tape and reel. The devices
we test  encompass  nearly  all  technologies produced  in  the  industry  today
including digital, linear, mixed signal, RF and integrated combinations of these
technologies.  In 2002 Amkor tested  over 1.1 billion units  making Amkor one of
the highest  volume testing  companies  in the  subcontract packaging  and  test
business. We tested 21%, 16% and 17% of the units that we packaged in 2002, 2001
and  2000, respectively. Our test operations are geographically located with our
packaging operations  to  improve cycle  time  and facilitate  information  flow
between the various manufacturing operations and with our customers.

     We  are also an  industry leader in  providing innovative testing solutions
that help to lower  the total cost  of test for our  customers. Two examples  of
these  innovative approaches are strip test and low cost RF test. In strip test,
we integrate  the  testing  process  into  the  packaging  process.  This  is  a
significant  departure from the industry standard practice of treating packaging
and  test  as  separate  unlinked  operations.  Using  strip  test   technology,
semiconductor  devices are tested  while they are  still in the  format they are
naturally produced in during the packaging process. This process is superior  to
traditional  non-integrated  testing  because  it allows  for  large  numbers of
devices to be tested  at the same  time, increases the  number of good  devices,
improves the quality of the finished device and improves throughput.

     In  the area of low cost RF test,  we have developed one of the lowest cost
test solutions in the industry for testing simple RF devices that are  pervasive
in  today's cell phones  and wireless LAN products.  This test approach combines
inexpensive test hardware with integration  software to achieve test costs  that
are  significantly less costly than industry standard test practices. We believe
that our low cost RF test technology provides a competitive advantage for  Amkor
and  when it is combined with our System in Package packaging technology, offers
our customers one of the industry's lowest total cost solutions.

     Amkor also provides value added  engineering services in addition to  basic
device  testing. These services include  test program development, test hardware
development,  test  program  conversion  to  lower  cost  test  systems,  device
characterization  and  reliability qualification  testing.  In total,  Amkor can
provide all of  the test  engineering services needed  by our  customers to  get
their  products ready for  high volume production. We  believe that this service
will continue to  become more valuable  to our customers  as they face  resource
constraints  not  only  in their  production  testing,  but also  in  their test
engineering and development areas.

WAFER FABRICATION SERVICES

     In January 1998,  we entered  into a supply  agreement with  ASI to  market
wafer  fabrication services  provided by  ASI's semiconductor  wafer fabrication
facility using  0.35 micron,  0.25 micron  and 0.18  micron complementary  metal
oxide silicon ("CMOS") process technology provided by Texas Instruments pursuant
to  technology assistance agreements with ASI. On February 28, 2003, we sold our
wafer fabrication services business to ASI. Additionally, we obtained a  release
from  Texas Instruments  regarding our  contractual obligations  with respect to
wafer fabrication services  to be performed  subsequent to the  transfer of  the
business  to ASI. Beginning with the first  quarter of 2003, we will reflect our
wafer fabrication services segment as  a discontinued operation and restate  our
historical results.

                                        10
<PAGE>

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Our  research  and  development  efforts focus  on  developing  new package
products  and  improving  the  efficiency  and  capabilities  of  our   existing
production  processes. We believe that technology  development is one of the key
success factors in the semiconductor packaging and test market and believe  that
we  have a distinct advantage in this area. Our research and development efforts
support our customers'  needs for smaller  packages, increased performance,  and
lower  cost. We  continue to  invest our  research and  development resources to
further the  development  of flip  chip  interconnection solutions,  chip  scale
packages    that   are   nearly    the   size   of    the   semiconductor   die,
micro-electromechanical system ("MEMS") devices used in a variety of end markets
including automotive, industrial  and personal entertainment,  our stacked  chip
packages that stack as many as three semiconductor dies in a single package, and
System-in-Package  technology, that uses both advanced packaging and traditional
surface mount techniques to enable the  combination of technologies in a  single
chip.

     As  of December 31,  2002, we had  more than 300  employees in research and
development activities.  In  addition,  we  involve  management  and  operations
personnel  in research  and development activities.  In 2002, 2001  and 2000, we
spent $31.2 million, $38.8 million and $26.1 million, respectively, on  research
and  development. We expect to continue to invest in research and development at
similar levels in future periods.

     We believe  that our  focus on  research and  product development  and  the
launching  of leading-edge package technologies enables  us to enter new markets
early, capture  market  share  and  promote the  adoption  of  our  new  package
offerings  as industry standards. We license our leading-edge technology such as
MicroLeadFrame(TM) to customers and competitors. We seek to enhance our in-house
research and development capability through the following activities:

     - Collaborating with customers  to gain access  to technology roadmaps  for
       next  generation semiconductor designs  and to develop  new packages that
       satisfy the requirements of those technology roadmaps;

     - Collaborating with companies, such as Toshiba Corporation, Cisco Systems,
       Ericsson Corporation  and  Nokia  Group,  to  design  new  packages  that
       function with the next generation of electronic products; and

     - Implementing  new package  designs by entering  into technology alliances
       and by licensing leading-edge designs  from others. For example, we  have
       entered  into a strategic alliance with Sharp Corporation to promote chip
       scale packaging  with fleXBGA(R).  We have  licensed from  Tessera,  Inc.
       their  microBGA(R)  design.  We  have  also  licensed  flip  chip package
       technology from LSI Logic Corporation  and wafer bumping technology  from
       Flip  Chip  Technologies  and  Unitive  Technologies.  In  general, these
       license agreements are  non-exclusive, royalty-bearing arrangements  with
       terms extending to various dates between 2008 and 2011.

MARKETING AND SALES

     We  sell our packaging and test services  to our customers and support them
through a network of international offices.  To better serve our customers,  our
offices  are  located near  our  largest customers  or  areas where  there  is a
concentration of several of our customers. Our office locations include sites in
the U.S.  (Chandler, Arizona;  Irvine, Santa  Clara and  San Diego,  California;
Boston,  Massachusetts; Greensboro, North  Carolina; West Chester, Pennsylvania,
and Austin and  Dallas, Texas),  China, France, Japan,  Korea, the  Philippines,
Singapore and Taiwan.

     To  provide comprehensive sales and customer service, we assign each of our
customers a direct support  team consisting of an  account manager, a  technical
program  manager, a  test program  manager and  both field  and factory customer
support representatives.  We also  typically support  our largest  multinational
customers  from multiple office locations to make sure we are fully aligned with
their various operational and business entities.

     The direct support  teams are  closely supported  by an  extended staff  of
product  managers, process and reliability  engineers, marketing and advertising
specialists, information systems technicians and factory

                                        11
<PAGE>

personnel. Together, these direct and extended support teams deliver an array of
services to our customers. These services include:

     - managing and coordinating ongoing manufacturing activity;

     - providing  information  and  expert  advice  on  packaging  solutions and
       trends;

     - managing the start-up of specific packaging and test programs;

     - providing a continuous  flow of  information to  the customers  regarding
       products and programs in process; and

     - researching  and assisting in the  resolution of technical and logistical
       issues.

     We implement direct  electronic links  with our customers  to achieve  near
real time and automated communications of order fulfillment information, such as
inventory  control  and  production  schedules, and  engineering  data,  such as
production yields, device specifications and quality indices, and to connect our
customers to our sales and marketing  personnel worldwide and to our  factories.
Web-enabled  tools provide our customers real time access to the status of their
products, the performance of  our manufacturing lines,  and technical data  they
require to support their new product introductions.

CUSTOMERS

     As  of January 31, 2003, we had  more than 400 customers, and our customers
include many of  the largest  semiconductor companies  in the  world. The  table
below lists our top 50 customers in 2002 based on revenues:

AMI Semiconductor, Inc.
Adaptec, Inc.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Agere Technologies, Inc.
Agilent Technologies
Altera Corporation
American Micro Systems, Inc.
Analog Devices, Inc.
Atmel Corporation
Austria Mikro Systeme
Cirrus Logic
Conexant Systems Inc.
Cypress Semiconductor
ESS Technology Inc.
Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation
Fujitsu Limited
Infineon Technologies AG
Integrated Circuit Systems, Inc.
Integrated Device Technology, Inc.
Intel Corporation
International Business Machines Corporation
International Rectifier
Intersil Corporation
Lattice Semiconductor Corporation
LSI Logic Corporation
Macronix International Corporation
Maxim Integrated Circuits
Mediatek Inc.
Melexis N.V.
Microchip Technology Inc.
Motorola, Inc.
National Semiconductor Corporation
NEC Corporation Ltd.
Omachi Fuji Co., LTD
ON Semiconductor
PMC -- Sierra Inc.
Philips Electronics
R.F Micro Devices
Robert Bosch GmbH
Samsung Electronics Corporation, LTD
Sanyo Electric Co., LTD
Silicon Laboratories Inc.
Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
Sony Semiconductor Corporation
ST Microelectronics PTE
Standard Microsystems
Texas Instruments, Inc.
Toshiba Corporation
Xilinx, Inc.
Zilog Electronics

     With the commencement of operations of Amkor Iwate and the acquisition of a
packaging  and test  facility from Toshiba  in 2001, total  net revenues derived
from Toshiba accounted for 12.6% and 14.3% of our consolidated net revenues  for
2002 and 2001, respectively. Prior to the sale of our wafer fabrication services
business  to ASI  in February  2003, we derived  substantially all  of our wafer
fabrication revenues from Texas

                                        12
<PAGE>

Instruments ("TI").  Total net  revenues derived  from TI  accounted for  13.9%,
10.2%   and  14.1%  of  consolidated  net  revenues  in  2002,  2001  and  2000,
respectively.

MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT

     Our  packaging  operations  depend  upon  obtaining  adequate  supplies  of
materials  and equipment on a timely basis.  The principal materials used in our
packaging process  are leadframes  or laminate  substrates, gold  wire and  mold
compound.  We purchase materials based on  customer forecasts, and our customers
are generally responsible  for any unused  materials in excess  of the  quantity
that they indicated that they would need.

     We  work  closely  with  our  primary  material  suppliers  to  insure that
materials are  available and  delivered  on time.  Moreover, we  also  negotiate
worldwide  pricing agreements with our major  suppliers to take advantage of the
scale of  our  operations. We  are  not dependent  on  any one  supplier  for  a
substantial portion of our material requirements.

     Our   packaging  operations  depend  on   obtaining  adequate  supplies  of
manufacturing equipment on a timely basis. We work closely with major  equipment
suppliers  to insure that equipment is delivered  on time and that the equipment
meets our stringent performance specifications.

     For a  discussion of  additional risks  associated with  our materials  and
equipment  suppliers,  see "Management's  Discussion  and Analysis  of Financial
Condition and  Results of  Operations --  Risk Factors  that May  Affect  Future
Operating Performance" in Item 7 of this annual report.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     The  semiconductor packaging process uses chemicals and gases and generates
byproducts that are subject to extensive governmental regulations. For  example,
at  our foreign manufacturing  facilities, we produce  liquid waste when silicon
wafers are diced  into chips  with the  aid of  diamond saws,  then cooled  with
running  water. Federal,  state and local  regulations in the  United States, as
well as environmental  regulations internationally, impose  various controls  on
the  storage,  handling,  discharge  and  disposal  of  chemicals  used  in  our
manufacturing processes and on the factories we occupy.

     We have been  engaged in  a continuing  program to  assure compliance  with
federal,  state and local  environmental laws and regulations.  We do not expect
capital  expenditures   or  other   costs   attributable  to   compliance   with
environmental  laws and  regulations to  have a  material adverse  effect on our
business, results of operations or financial condition.

     For a  discussion of  additional risks  associated with  the  environmental
issues,  see "Management's  Discussion and  Analysis of  Financial Condition and
Results  of  Operations  --  Risk  Factors  that  May  Affect  Future  Operating
Performance -- Environmental Regulations" in Item 7 of this annual report.

COMPETITION

     The   subcontracted  semiconductor  packaging  and   test  market  is  very
competitive. We face substantial competition from established packaging and test
service  providers  primarily   located  in  Asia,   including  companies   with
significant   manufacturing   capacity,   financial   resources,   research  and
development  operations,  marketing  and  other  capabilities.  These  companies
include  Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc.,  ASE Test Limited, ASAT Ltd.,
ChipPAC Incorporated,  Orient Semiconductor  Engineering, ST  Assembly and  Test
Services,  and Siliconware  Precision Industries  Co., Ltd.  Such companies have
also established relationships with many large semiconductor companies that  are
current or potential customers of our company. We also compete with the internal
semiconductor packaging and test capabilities of many of our customers.

     The  principal elements  of competition in  the subcontracted semiconductor
packaging market  include:  (1)  breadth  of  package  offering,  (2)  technical
competence, (3) new package design and implementation,

                                        13
<PAGE>

(4) manufacturing yields,  (5) manufacturing cycle  times, (6) customer  service
and  (7) price. We believe  that we generally compete  favorably with respect to
each of these factors.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     As of March 20, 2003, we held 224 U.S. patents and had 209 pending patents.
In addition to the U.S. patents,  we held 637 patents in foreign  jurisdictions.
We  expect to continue  to file patent applications  when appropriate to protect
our proprietary technologies,  but we  cannot assure  you that  we will  receive
patents  from pending or future applications. In addition, any patents we obtain
may be challenged, invalidated  or circumvented and  may not provide  meaningful
protection or other commercial advantage to us.

     We may need to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or
to  defend  our company  against claimed  infringement of  the rights  of others
through litigation, which could result in substantial cost and diversion of  our
resources.  The  semiconductor  industry  is  characterized  by  frequent claims
regarding patent  and other  intellectual property  rights. If  any third  party
makes a valid claim against us, we could be required to:

     - discontinue the use of certain processes;

     - cease the manufacture, use, import and sale of infringing products;

     - pay substantial damages;

     - develop non-infringing technologies; or

     - acquire licenses to the technology we had allegedly infringed.

If  we fail to  obtain necessary licenses  or if we  face litigation relating to
patent infringement or other intellectual  property matters, our business  could
suffer.

EMPLOYEES

     As  of  December  31, 2002,  we  had 20,276  full-time  employees including
approximately 700  employees  seconded from  Toshiba  whose employment  will  be
transferred  to Amkor as of  January 1, 2004. Of  the total employee population,
13,021 were  engaged  in  manufacturing, 5,650  were  engaged  in  manufacturing
support,  326  were engaged  in research  and development,  233 were  engaged in
marketing and sales and 1,046 were  engaged in finance, business management  and
administration.  We believe that  our relations with our  employees are good. We
have never experienced a work stoppage in any of our factories. Our employees in
the U.S., the Philippines, Taiwan and China are not represented by a  collective
bargaining unit. Certain members of our factories in Korea and Japan are members
of  a union,  and all  employees at  these factories  are subject  to collective
bargaining agreements.
