ITEM 1. BUSINESS

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This business section contains forward-looking statements. In some cases,
you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may,"
"will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates,"
"predicts," "potential," "continue" or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. Actual events or
results may differ materially. In evaluating these statements, you should
specifically consider various factors, including the risks outlined under
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Risk Factors that May Affect Future Operating Performance" in Item
7 of this annual report. These factors may cause our actual results to differ
materially from any forward-looking statement.

OVERVIEW

     Amkor is one of the world's largest subcontractors of semiconductor
packaging and test services. Amkor pioneered the outsourcing of semiconductor
assembly and test services in 1968, and over the years has built a leading
position by:

  -  Providing a broad portfolio of packaging and test technologies and
     services;

  -  Maintaining a leading role in the design and development of new package and
     test technologies;

  -  Cultivating long-standing relationships with customers, including many of
     the world's leading semiconductor companies;

  -  Developing expertise in high-volume manufacturing; and

  -  Diversifying our operational scope by providing production capabilities in
     China, Japan and Taiwan, in addition to long-standing capabilities in Korea
     and the Philippines.

     The semiconductors that we package and test for our customers ultimately
become components in electronic systems used in communications, computing,
consumer, industrial, automotive and military applications. Our customers
include, among others, Atmel Corporation, Infineon Technologies AG, Intel
Corporation, LSI Logic Corporation, Mediatek Inc., Philips Electronics N.V., ST
Microelectronics PTE, Sony Semiconductor Corporation, Toshiba Corporation and
Xilinx, Inc. The outsourced semiconductor packaging and test market is very
competitive. We also compete with the internal semiconductor packaging and test
capabilities of many of our customers, some of whom can use us as a source of
overflow capacity.

     Packaging and test are an integral part of the semiconductor manufacturing
process. Semiconductor manufacturing begins with silicon wafers and involves the
fabrication of electronic circuitry into complex patterns, thus creating
individual chips on the wafers. The packaging process creates an electrical
interconnect between the semiconductor chip and the system board. In packaging,
the fabricated semiconductor wafers are cut into individual chips which are
attached to a substrate and then encased in a protective material to provide
optimal electrical and thermal performance. The packaged chips are then tested
using sophisticated equipment to ensure that each packaged chip meets its design
specifications. Increasingly, packages are custom designed for specific chips
and specific end-market applications.

     We historically marketed the output of fabricated semiconductor wafers
provided by a wafer fabrication foundry owned and operated by Anam
Semiconductor, Inc. (ASI). On February 28, 2003, we sold our wafer fabrication
services business to ASI. We have restated our historical results to reflect our
wafer fabrication services segment as a discontinued operation. Amkor was
incorporated in 1997 in the state of Delaware as the successor-in-interest to
various entities initially founded in 1970. References in this annual report to
Amkor shall mean Amkor and, as applicable, its predecessor entities.

WEBSITE ACCESS TO SEC REPORTS

     We maintain an Internet website at www.amkor.com. Our periodic SEC reports
(including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
to

                                       3
<PAGE>

Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act) are accessible through our website,
free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed
electronically with the SEC. To access these reports, go to our website at
www.amkor.com/ir.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Semiconductor devices are the essential building blocks used in most
electronic products. As semiconductor devices have evolved, there have been
three important consequences: (1) an increase in demand for computers and
consumer electronics fostered by declining prices for such products; (2) the
proliferation of semiconductor devices into diverse end products such as
consumer electronics, communications equipment and automotive systems; and (3)
an increase in the semiconductor content in electronic products.

OUTSOURCING TRENDS

     Historically, semiconductor companies packaged semiconductors primarily in
their own factories and relied on subcontract providers to handle overflow
volume. In recent years, semiconductor companies have increasingly outsourced
their packaging and testing to subcontract providers, such as us, for the
following reasons:

   SUBCONTRACT PROVIDERS HAVE DEVELOPED EXPERTISE IN ADVANCED PACKAGING
TECHNOLOGIES.

     Semiconductor companies are facing increasing demands for miniaturization
and improved thermal and electrical performance in semiconductor devices. This
trend, coupled with increasing complexity in the design of semiconductor
devices, has led many semiconductor companies to view packaging as an enabling
technology requiring sophisticated expertise and technological innovation. As
packaging and technology becomes more advanced, many semiconductor companies
have had difficulty developing adequate internal packaging capabilities and are
relying on subcontract providers of packaging and test services as a key source
of new package design and production.

   SUBCONTRACT PROVIDERS CAN OFFER SHORTER TIME TO MARKET FOR NEW PRODUCTS
BECAUSE THEIR RESOURCES ARE DEDICATED TO PACKAGING AND TEST SOLUTIONS.

     We believe that semiconductor companies are seeking to shorten the time to
market for their new products, and that having the right packaging technology
and capacity in place is a critical factor in facilitating product
introductions.

     Semiconductor companies frequently do not have sufficient time to develop
their packaging and test capabilities or the equipment and expertise to
implement new packaging technology in volume. For this reason, semiconductor
companies are leveraging the resources and capabilities of subcontract packaging
and test companies to deliver their new products to market more quickly.

   MANY SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURERS DO NOT HAVE THE ECONOMIES OF SCALE TO OFFSET
THE SIGNIFICANT COSTS OF BUILDING PACKAGING AND TEST FACTORIES.

     Semiconductor packaging is a complex process requiring substantial
investment in specialized equipment and factories. As a result of the large
capital investment required, this manufacturing equipment must operate at a high
capacity level for an extended period of time to be cost effective. Shorter
product life cycles, faster introductions of new products and the need to update
or replace packaging equipment to accommodate new package types have made it
more difficult for semiconductor companies to maintain cost effective
utilization of their packaging and test assets. Subcontract providers of
packaging and test services, on the other hand, can use their equipment to
support a broad range of customers, potentially generating greater manufacturing
economies of scale.

   THE AVAILABILITY OF HIGH QUALITY PACKAGING AND TESTING FROM SUBCONTRACTORS
ALLOWS SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURERS TO FOCUS THEIR RESOURCES ON SEMICONDUCTOR
DESIGN AND WAFER FABRICATION.

     As semiconductor process technology migrates to larger wafers and smaller
feature size, the cost of a state-of-the-art wafer fabrication facility can
approach $3 billion or more. Subcontractors have demonstrated their ability to
deliver advanced packaging and test solutions at a competitive price, thus
allowing semiconductor companies to focus their capital resources on core wafer
fabrication activities rather than invest in advanced packaging and test
technology.

                                       4
<PAGE>

   THERE ARE A GROWING NUMBER OF SEMICONDUCTOR COMPANIES WITHOUT FACTORIES,
KNOWN AS "FABLESS" COMPANIES, WHICH DESIGN SEMICONDUCTOR CHIPS AND OUTSOURCE ALL
OF THE ASSOCIATED MANUFACTURING.

     Fabless semiconductor companies focus exclusively on the semiconductor
design process and outsource virtually every step of the manufacturing process.
We believe that fabless semiconductor companies will continue to be a
significant driver of growth in the subcontract packaging and test industry.

     These outsourcing trends, combined with the growth in the number of
semiconductor devices being produced and sold, are increasing demand for
subcontracted packaging and test services. Today, nearly all of the world's
major semiconductor companies use packaging and test service subcontractors for
at least a portion, if not all, of their packaging and test needs.

COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS

     We believe our competitive strengths include the following:

   BROAD OFFERING OF PACKAGE DESIGN, PACKAGING AND TEST SERVICES

     Integrating advanced semiconductor technology into electronic end products
often poses unique thermal and electrical challenges, and Amkor employs a large
number of design engineers to create package formats that solve these
challenges. Amkor produces more than 1,000 package types, representing one of
the broadest package offerings in the semiconductor industry. We provide
customers with a wide array of packaging alternatives including traditional
leadframe, advanced leadframe and laminate packages, in both wirebond and flip
chip formats. We are also a leading assembler of complementary metal oxide
silicon ("CMOS") image sensor devices used in digital cameras and cellular
phones, and micro-electromechanical system ("MEMS") devices used in a variety of
end markets, including automotive, industrial and personal entertainment. We
also offer an extensive line of services to test digital, logic, analog and
mixed signal semiconductor devices. We believe that the breadth of our packaging
and test services is important to customers seeking to reduce the number of
their suppliers.

   LEADING TECHNOLOGY INNOVATOR

     We believe that we are one of the leading providers of advanced
semiconductor packaging and test solutions. We have designed and developed
several state-of-the-art leadframe and laminate package formats including our
MicroLeadFrame(R), VisionPak(TM), PowerQuad(R), SuperBGA(R), fleXBGA(R) and
ChipArray(R) BGA packages. To maintain our leading industry position, we have
more than 300 employees engaged in research and development focusing on the
design and development of new semiconductor packaging and test technology. We
work closely with customers and technology partners to develop new and
innovative package designs.

   LONG-STANDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH PROMINENT SEMICONDUCTOR COMPANIES

     Our customer base consists of more than 300 companies, including most of
the world's largest semiconductor companies. Over the last three decades Amkor
has developed long-standing relationships with many of our customers.

   ADVANCED MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES

     We believe that our company's manufacturing excellence has been a key
factor in our success in attracting and retaining customers. We have worked with
our customers and our suppliers to develop proprietary process technologies to
enhance our existing manufacturing capabilities, reduce time to market, increase
quality and lower manufacturing costs. We believe our manufacturing cycle times
are among the fastest available from any subcontractor of packaging and test
services.

COMPETITIVE DISADVANTAGES

     You should be aware that our competitive strengths may be diminished or
eliminated due to certain challenges faced by our company and which our
principal competitors may not face, including the following:

                                       5
<PAGE>

  -  High Leverage and Restrictive Covenants -- Our substantial indebtedness and
     the covenants contained in the agreements with our lenders could materially
     restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition.

  -  Risks Associated with International Operations -- We depend on our
     factories in Korea, the Philippines, Japan, Taiwan and China. Many of our
     customers' operations are also located outside of the U.S. To the extent
     political or economic instability or military actions occur in any of these
     regions, our operations could be harmed.

  -  Difficulties Integrating Acquisitions -- We face challenges as we integrate
     new and diverse operations and try to attract qualified employees to
     support our expansion plans.

     In addition, we and our competitors face a variety of operational and
industry risks inherent to the industry in which we operate. For a complete
discussion of risks associated with our business, please read "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk
Factors that May Affect Future Operating Performance" in Item 7 of this annual
report.

STRATEGY

     To build upon our industry position and to remain a preferred subcontractor
of semiconductor packaging and test services, we are pursuing the following
strategies:

   CAPITALIZE ON OUTSOURCING TREND

     We believe that while the packaging and test outsourcing trend was impacted
during the recent industry downturn, there remains a long-term trend towards
more outsourcing on the part of semiconductor companies. We believe that many
vertically integrated semiconductor companies reduced their investments in
advanced packaging and test technology during the downturn and increased their
reliance on outsourced packaging and test suppliers for advanced package and
test requirements. We also believe that as the semiconductor content of
electronic end products increases in complexity, so will the need for the
advanced package and test solutions. Accordingly, we expect semiconductor
companies will expand their outsourcing of advanced semiconductor packaging and
test services and we intend to capitalize on this growth. We believe
semiconductor companies will increasingly outsource packaging and test services
to companies who can provide advanced technology and high-quality, high-volume
manufacturing expertise.

   LEVERAGE SCALE AND SCOPE OF PACKAGING AND TEST CAPABILITIES

     We are committed to expanding both the scale of our operations and the
scope of our packaging and test services. We believe that our scale and scope
allow us to provide cost-effective solutions to our customers in the following
ways:

     -  We have the capacity to absorb large orders and accommodate quick
        turn-around times,

     -  We use our size and industry position to obtain low pricing on materials
        and manufacturing equipment, and

     -  We offer an exceptionally broad range of packaging and test services and
        can serve as a single source for many of our customers.

   MAINTAIN OUR TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP

     We intend to continue to develop leading-edge packaging technologies. We
believe that our focus on research and product development will enable us to
enter new markets early, capture market share and promote the adoption of our
new package designs as industry standards. We seek to enhance our in-house
research and development capabilities through the following activities:

  -  Collaborating with integrated device manufacturer customers, or IDM
     customers, to gain access to technology roadmaps for next generation
     semiconductor designs and to develop new packages that satisfy their future
     requirements,

                                       6
<PAGE>

  -  Collaborating with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, such as
     Toshiba Corporation, Cisco Systems, Sony Ericsson Corporation and Nokia
     Group, to design new packages that function with the next generation of
     electronic products, and

  -  Collaborating with wafer foundry companies on future package needs for new
     wafer technologies.

   BROADEN THE GEOGRAPHICAL SCOPE OF OUR MANUFACTURING BASE

     Prior to 2001, our company's manufacturing operations were centered in
Korea and the Philippines. In order to diversify our operational footprint and
better serve our customers, we adopted a strategy of expanding our operational
base to key microelectronic manufacturing areas of Asia. During 2001, we
commenced a joint venture with Toshiba Corporation in Japan and we established a
manufacturing presence in Taiwan and China. Our goal is to continue to build
operational scale in these new geographic locations and capitalize on growth
opportunities in their respective markets. In January 2004, we purchased the
remaining interest in our joint venture from Toshiba Corporation and now own
100% of the operation.

   PROVIDE AN INTEGRATED, TURNKEY SOLUTION

     We are able to provide a turnkey solution comprised of semiconductor
package design, packaging, test and drop shipment services. We believe that this
capability will enable customers to achieve faster time to market for new
products and improved cycle times.

   STRENGTHEN CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS

     We intend to further develop our long-standing customer relationships. We
believe that because of today's shortened technology life cycles, integrated
communications are crucial to speed time to market. We have customer support
personnel located near the facilities of major customers and in acknowledged
technology centers. These support personnel work closely with customers to plan
production for existing packages as well as to develop requirements for the next
generation of packaging technology. In addition, we implement direct electronic
links with our customers to enhance communication and facilitate the flow of
real-time engineering data and order information.

   PURSUE STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS

     We evaluate candidates for strategic acquisitions and joint ventures to
strengthen our business and expand our geographic reach. We believe that there
are many opportunities to acquire the in-house packaging operations of our
customers and competitors. To the extent we acquire operations of our customers,
we intend to structure any such acquisition to include long-term supply
contracts with those customers. In addition, we intend to enter new markets near
clusters of wafer foundries, which are large sources of demand for packaging and
test services.

PACKAGING AND TEST SERVICES

PACKAGING SERVICES

     We offer a broad range of package formats designed to provide our customers
with a full array of packaging solutions. Our packages are divided into two
families: traditional, which includes principally traditional leadframe
products, and advanced packages, which includes principally advanced leadframes
and laminate products.

     In response to the increasing demands of today's high-performance
electronic products, semiconductor packages have evolved from traditional
leadframe packages and now include advanced leadframe and laminate formats. The
differentiating characteristics of these package formats include (1) the size of
the package, (2) the number of electrical connections the package can support,
(3) the thermal and electrical characteristics of the package, and (4) in the
case of our System-in-Package family of laminate packages, the integration of
multiple active and passive components in a single package.

     As semiconductor devices increase in complexity, they often require a
larger number of electrical connections. Leadframe packages are so named because
they connect the electronic circuitry on the semiconductor device to the system
board through leads on the perimeter of the package. Our laminate products,
typically called ball grid array or BGA, use

                                       7
<PAGE>

balls on the bottom of the package to create the electrical connections. This
array format can support larger numbers of electrical connections.

     Evolving semiconductor technology has allowed designers to increase the
level of performance and functionality in portable and handheld electronics
products, and this has led to the development of smaller package sizes. In
leading-edge packages, the size of the package is reduced to approximately the
size of the individual chip itself in a process known as chip scale packaging.

     The following table sets forth by product type, for the periods indicated,
the amount of our packaging and test net revenues in millions of dollars and the
percentage of such net revenues:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      2003                      2002                   2001
                                                ------------------    -----------------------    -----------------
                                                                       (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                             <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>           <C>       <C>
Traditional packages........................    $  340       21.2%       $  391      27.8%       $  439      32.8%
Advanced packages...........................     1,124       70.1           915      65.1           790      59.1
Test........................................       140        8.7           100       7.1           108       8.1
                                                ------     ------        ------    ------        ------    ------
   Total packaging and test net revenues....    $1,604      100.0%       $1,406     100.0%       $1,337     100.0%
                                                ======     ======        ======    ======        ======    ======
</TABLE>

   TRADITIONAL PACKAGES

     Traditional leadframe-based packages are the most widely used package
family in the semiconductor industry and are typically characterized by a chip
encapsulated in a plastic mold compound with metal leads on the perimeter. Two
of the most popular traditional leadframe package types are SOIC and QFP, which
support a wide variety of device types and applications. The traditional
leadframe package family has evolved from "through hole design", where the leads
are plugged into holes on the circuit board to "surface mount design", where the
leads are soldered to the surface of the circuit board. We offer a wide range of
lead counts and body sizes to satisfy variations in the size of customers'
semiconductor devices.

   ADVANCED PACKAGES

   ADVANCED LEADFRAME PACKAGES

     Through a process of continuous engineering and customization, we have
designed several advanced leadframe package types that are thinner and smaller
than traditional leadframe packages, with the ability to accommodate more leads
on the perimeter of the package. These advanced leadframe packages typically
have superior thermal and electrical characteristics, which allow them to
dissipate heat generated by high-powered semiconductor devices while providing
enhanced electrical connectivity. We plan to continue to develop increasingly
smaller versions of these packages to keep pace with continually shrinking
semiconductor device sizes and demand for miniaturization of portable electronic
products.

     One of our most successful advanced leadframe package offerings is the
MicroLeadFrame(R) family of QFN, or Quad Flat No-lead packages. This package
family is particularly well suited for radio frequency ("RF") and wireless
applications. Our smallest MicroLeadFrame(R) package design is less than 2mm
square and can fit on the head of a pin.

   LAMINATE PACKAGES

     The laminate family employs the ball grid array design, which utilizes a
plastic or tape laminate substrate rather than a leadframe substrate and places
the electrical connections on the bottom of the package rather than around the
perimeter.

     The ball grid array format was developed to address the need for higher
lead counts required by advanced semiconductor devices. As the number of leads
on leadframe packages increased, leads were placed closer to one another in
order to maintain the size of the package. The increased lead density resulted
in electrical shorting problems, and required the development of increasingly
sophisticated and expensive techniques for producing circuit boards to
accommodate the high number of leads.

                                       8
<PAGE>

     The ball grid array format solved this problem by effectively creating
leads on the bottom of the package in the form of small bumps or balls that can
be evenly distributed across the entire bottom surface of the package, allowing
greater distance between the individual leads.

     Our first package format in this family was the plastic ball grid array
(PBGA). We have subsequently designed or licensed additional ball grid array
package formats that have superior performance characteristics and features that
enable low-cost, high-volume manufacturing. These laminate products include:

  -  SuperBGA(R), which includes a copper layer to dissipate heat and is
     designed for low-profile, high-power applications, and

  -  TEPBGA-2, which is a standard PBGA with thicker copper layers plus an
     integrated heat slug and is designed for enhanced thermal performance in
     high power applications.

     We have also designed a variety of packages, commonly referred to as chip
scale packages, or CSP, which are not much larger than the chip itself. Chip
scale packages are becoming widely adopted as designers and manufacturers of
consumer electronics seek to achieve higher levels of performance while
shrinking the product size. Some of our chip scale packages include:

  -  ChipArray(R)BGA and TapeArray(TM)BGA, in which the package is only 1.5 mm
     larger than the chip itself, and

  -  Wafer Level Package, which further reduces package size and increases
     manufacturing efficiency.

     Advances in packaging technology now allow the placing of two or more chips
on top of each other within an individual package. This concept, known as
stacked packaging, permits a higher level of semiconductor density and more
functionality. In addition, advance wafer thinning technology has fostered the
creation of extremely thin packages that can be placed on top of each other
within standard height restrictions used in microelectronic system boards. Some
of our stacked packages include:

  -  Stacked CSP (S-CSP), which is similar to our ChipArray(R) BGA, except that
     S-CSP contains two or more chips placed on top of each other, and

  -  ETCSP(R), which are extremely thin chip scale packages that can be stacked
     on top of each other.

  OTHER ADVANCED PACKAGES

     To capitalize on an increasing customer demand for higher levels of system
integration, we created our "System-in-Package" (SiP) modules. SiP modules
integrate various system elements into a single-function block, thus enabling
space and power efficiency, high performance and lower production costs. Most of
our SiP packages are laminate based. Our SiP technology is being used to produce
a variety of devices including power amplifiers for cellular phones and other
portable communication devices, wireless local area network (WLAN) modules for
networking applications, memory cards and sensors, such as fingerprint
recognition devices.

     In order to accommodate the emerging use of digital imaging in a variety of
consumer products, we developed VisionPak(TM), a family of CMOS image
sensor-based packages that can be incorporated in such products as cellular
phones, PDAs, digital cameras and PCs.

     We are also a leading outsourced provider of packages based on MEMS that
are used in a broad range of industrial and consumer applications, including
automobiles and home entertainment.

TEST SERVICES

     Amkor provides a complete range of test solutions including wafer probe,
final test, strip test, marking, bake, drypack, and tape and reel. The devices
we test encompass nearly all technologies produced in the industry today
including digital, linear, mixed signal, memory, RF and integrated combinations
of these technologies. In 2003, Amkor tested over 1.5 billion

                                       9
<PAGE>

units making Amkor one of the highest volume testing companies in the
subcontract packaging and test business. We tested 28%, 21% and 16% of the units
that we packaged in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our test operations are
geographically located with our packaging operations to improve cycle time and
facilitate information flow between the various manufacturing operations and
with our customers.

     We are also an industry leader in providing innovative testing solutions
that help to lower the total cost of test for our customers. Two examples of
these innovative approaches are strip test and low cost RF test. Strip test
involves parallel testing, in which large numbers of packaged units can be
tested at one time, as compared to "singulated" testing in which individual
packaged units are tested. With strip test, electronically isolated packaged
units are tested in parallel, resulting in fast handler index times and high
throughput rates, thus reducing test cost and increasing test yield. In 2003 we
strip tested approximately 300 million units, bringing the total devices strip
tested by us to over 500 million units since inception of the program in 1999.

     In the area of low cost RF test, we have developed one of the lowest cost
test solutions in the industry for testing simple RF devices that are pervasive
in today's cell phones and WLAN products. This test approach combines
inexpensive test hardware with integration software to achieve test costs that
are significantly less costly than industry standard test practices. We believe
that our low cost RF test technology provides a competitive advantage for us
and, when it is combined with our System in Package and MicroLeadFrame(R)
packaging technologies, offers our customers one of the industry's lowest total
cost solutions.

     Amkor also provides value added engineering services in addition to basic
device testing. These services include test program development, test hardware
development, test program conversion to lower cost test systems, device
characterization and reliability qualification testing. In total, we can provide
all of the test engineering services needed by our customers to get their
products ready for high volume production. We believe that this service will
continue to become more valuable to our customers as they face resource
constraints not only in their production testing, but also in their test
engineering and development areas.

     In 2003, we strengthened our test operations in Taiwan and mainland China
by entering into strategic alliances in each of these countries. We entered into
these alliances in order to enhance our ability to provide test support for our
growing packaging business and to provide our customers broader and more rapidly
scalable test capacity.

WAFER FABRICATION SERVICES

     In January 1998, we entered into a supply agreement with ASI to market
wafer fabrication services provided by ASI's semiconductor wafer fabrication
facility using 0.35 micron, 0.25 micron and 0.18 micron CMOS process technology
provided by Texas Instruments pursuant to technology assistance agreements with
ASI. On February 28, 2003, we sold our wafer fabrication services business to
ASI. Additionally, we obtained a release from Texas Instruments regarding our
contractual obligations with respect to wafer fabrication services to be
performed subsequent to the transfer of the business to ASI. We have restated
our historical results to reflect our wafer fabrication services segment as a
discontinued operation. In connection with the disposition of our wafer
fabrication business, we recorded, in the first quarter of 2003, $1.0 million in
severance and other exit costs to close our wafer fabrication services
operations in Boise, Idaho and Lyon, France. Also in the first quarter of 2003,
we recognized a pre-tax gain on the disposition of our wafer fabrication
services business of $58.6 million ($51.5 million, net of tax). The carrying
value of the sold net assets associated with the business as of February 28,
2003 was $2.4 million.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Our research and development efforts focus on developing new package
products and improving the efficiency and capabilities of our existing
production processes. We believe that technology development is one of the key
success factors in the semiconductor packaging and test market and also believe
that we have a distinct advantage in this area. Our focus on research and
development efforts enable us to enter markets early, capture market share and
promote the adoption of our new package offerings as industry standards. These
efforts also support our customers' needs for smaller packages, increased
performance, and lower cost. In addition, we license our leading edge
technology, such as MicroLeadFrame(R), to customers and competitors. We continue
to invest our research and development resources to further the development of
flip chip interconnection solutions, chip scale packages, MEMS devices and
System-in-Package technology.

                                       10
<PAGE>

     As of December 31, 2003, we had more than 300 employees in research and
development activities. In addition, we involve management and operations
personnel in research and development activities. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, we
spent $25.8 million, $31.2 million and $38.8 million, respectively, on research
and development. We currently expect to increase our investment in research and
development in 2004 by 40% over 2003 spending levels.

MARKETING AND SALES

     Our marketing offices manage and promote our packaging and test services
while key customer and technical support is provided through our network of
international sales offices. To better serve our customers, our offices are
located near our largest customers or areas where there is customer
concentration. Our marketing and sales office locations include sites in the
U.S. (Chandler, Arizona; Irvine, Santa Clara and San Diego, California; Boston,
Massachusetts; Greensboro, North Carolina; West Chester, Pennsylvania, and
Austin and Dallas, Texas), Cayman Islands, China, France, Japan, Korea, the
Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.

     To provide comprehensive sales and customer service, we assign each of our
customers a direct support team consisting of an account manager, technical
program manager, test program manager and both field and factory customer
support representatives. We also support our largest multinational customers
from multiple office locations to ensure that we are aligned with their global
operational and business requirements.

     Our direct support teams are further supported by an extended staff of
product, process, quality and reliability engineers, as well as marketing and
advertising specialists, information systems technicians and factory personnel.
Together, these direct and extended support teams deliver an array of services
to our customers. These services include:

  -  Managing and coordinating ongoing manufacturing activity,

  -  Providing information and expert advice on packaging and test solutions and
     related trends,

  -  Managing the start-up of specific packaging and test programs thus
     improving customers' time to market,

  -  Providing a continuous flow of information to our customers regarding
     products and programs in process,

  -  Researching and assisting in the resolution of technical and logistical
     issues,

  -  Aligning our technologies and research and development activities with the
     needs of our customers and OEMs,

  -  Driving industry standards,

  -  Providing design and simulation services to insure package reliability, and

  -  Collaboration with our customers on continuous quality improvement
     initiatives.

     Further, we implement direct electronic links with our customers to:

  -  Achieve near real time and automated communications of order fulfillment
     information, such as inventory control, production schedules and
     engineering data, such as production yields, device specifications and
     quality indices, and

  -  Connect our customers to our sales and marketing personnel worldwide and to
     our factories.

     Web-enabled tools provide our customers real time access to the status of
their products, the performance of our manufacturing lines, and technical data
they require to support their new product introductions.

                                       11
<PAGE>

CUSTOMERS

     As of February 27, 2004, we had more than 300 customers, including many of
the largest semiconductor companies in the world. The table below lists our top
50 customers in 2003 based on revenues:

AMI Semiconductor, Inc.                     Motorola, Inc.
Adaptec, Inc.                               MTEKVISION Co., LTD
Agere Technologies, Inc.                    National Semiconductor Corporation
Agilent Technologies                        NEC Corporation Ltd.
Altera Corporation                          Nvidia Corporation
Analog Devices, Inc.                        Oki Electric Ind. Co., LTD.
Atmel Corporation                           Omachi Fuji Co., LTD
Austria Mikro Systeme                       ON Semiconductor
Conexant Systems Inc.                       PMC - Sierra Inc.
ESS Technology Inc.                         Philips Electronics
Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation         Realtek Semiconductor Corporation
Fujitsu Limited                             R.F Micro Devices
Hitachi LTD.                                Ricoh Co., LTD
Infineon Technologies AG                    Robert Bosch GmbH
Integrated Device Technology, Inc.          Samsung Electronics Corporation, LTD
Intel Corporation                           Sanyo Electric Co., LTD
International Business Machines Corporation Silicon Image, Inc.
Intersil Corporation                        Silicon Laboratories Inc.
Lattice Semiconductor Corporation           Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
LSI Logic Corporation                       Sony Semiconductor Corporation
Maxim Integrated Circuits                   ST Microelectronics PTE
Mediatek Inc.                               Standard Microsystems
Microchip Technology Inc.                   Texas Instruments, Inc.
Micronas Semiconductor Holding AG           Toshiba Corporation
Mitsubishi Electric Semiconductor           Xilinx, Inc.

     Our services are available internationally. A summary of our domestic and
international net revenue and net property, plant and equipment is set forth in
Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is
incorporated herein by reference. More than half of our overall net revenue
comes from outside of the United States.

     For a discussion of risks attendant to our foreign operations, see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Risk Factors That May Affect Future Operating Performance -- Risks
Associated with International Operations -- We Depend on Our Factories in the
Philippines, Korea, Japan, Taiwan and China. Many of Our Customers' and Vendors'
Operations Are Also Located Outside of the U.S."

     With the commencement of operations of Amkor Iwate and the acquisition of a
packaging and test facility from Toshiba in 2001, total net revenues derived
from Toshiba accounted for 11.6%, 14.7% and 16.3% of our consolidated net
revenues for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Prior to the sale of our wafer
fabrication services business to ASI in February 2003, we derived substantially
all of our wafer fabrication revenues from Texas Instruments (TI), which due to
our restatement, are no longer included in net revenues, but rather, as part of
discontinued operations in the restated Consolidated Statements of Operations.

MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT

     Our packaging operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of
materials and equipment on a timely basis. The principal materials used in our
packaging process are leadframes or laminate substrates, gold wire and mold
compound. We purchase materials based on customer forecasts, and our customers
are generally responsible for any unused materials which we purchased based on
such forecasts.

                                       12
<PAGE>

     We work closely with our primary material suppliers to insure that
materials are available and delivered on time. Moreover, we also negotiate
worldwide pricing agreements with our major suppliers to take advantage of the
scale of our operations. We are not dependent on any one supplier for a
substantial portion of our material requirements.

     Our packaging operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of
manufacturing equipment on a timely basis. We work closely with major equipment
suppliers to insure that equipment is delivered on time and that the equipment
meets our stringent performance specifications.

     For a discussion of additional risks associated with our materials and
equipment suppliers, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk Factors that May Affect Future
Operating Performance" in Item 7 of this annual report.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     The semiconductor packaging process uses chemicals and gases and generates
byproducts that are subject to extensive governmental regulations. For example,
at our foreign manufacturing facilities, we produce liquid waste when silicon
wafers are diced into chips with the aid of diamond saws, then cooled with
running water. Federal, state and local regulations in the United States, as
well as environmental regulations internationally, impose various controls on
the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals used in our
manufacturing processes and on the factories we occupy.

     We have been engaged in a continuing program to assure compliance with
federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We do not expect
capital expenditures or other costs attributable to compliance with
environmental laws and regulations to have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations or financial condition.

     For a discussion of additional risks associated with the environmental
issues, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -- Risk Factors that May Affect Future Operating
Performance -- Environmental Regulations" in Item 7 of this annual report.

COMPETITION

     The subcontracted semiconductor packaging and test market is very
competitive. We face substantial competition from established packaging and test
service providers primarily located in Asia, including companies with
significant manufacturing capacity, financial resources, research and
development operations, marketing and other capabilities. These companies
include Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., ASE Test Limited, ASAT Ltd.,
ChipPAC Incorporated, Orient Semiconductor Engineering, ST Assembly and Test
Services and Siliconware Precision Industries Co., Ltd. Such companies have also
established relationships with many large semiconductor companies that are
current or potential customers of our company. We also compete with the internal
semiconductor packaging and test capabilities of many of our customers.

     The principal elements of competition in the subcontracted semiconductor
packaging market include: (1) breadth of package offering, (2) technical
competence, (3) new package design and implementation, (4) quality, (5)
manufacturing cycle times, (6) customer service and (7) price. We believe that
we generally compete favorably with respect to each of these factors.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

ACQUISITION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

     We maintain an active program to protect our investment in technology by
acquiring intellectual property protection and enforcing our intellectual
property rights. Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products
and services include patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. We have
filed and obtained a number of patents in the United States and abroad. While
our patents are an important element of our intellectual property strategy and
our success, as a whole we are not materially dependent on any one patent or any
one technology. We expect to continue to file patent applications when
appropriate to protect our proprietary technologies, but we cannot assure you
that we will receive patents from pending or future applications. In addition,
any patents we obtain may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and may not
provide meaningful protection or other commercial advantage to us.

                                       13
<PAGE>

     We also protect certain details about our processes, products and
strategies as trade secrets, keeping confidential the information that we
believe provides us with a competitive advantage. We have ongoing programs
designed to maintain the confidentiality of such information. Further, to
distinguish our products from our competitors' products, we have obtained
certain trademarks and trade names. We have promoted and will continue to
promote our particular product brands through advertising and other marketing
techniques.

ENFORCEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

     We may need to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or
defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others through
litigation, which could result in substantial cost and diversion of our
resources. We intend to license our intellectual property when it makes economic
sense for us to do so, consistent with the licensing policies of the various
domestic and international standards setting organizations of which we are a
member. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims regarding
patent and other intellectual property rights. If any third party makes an
enforceable infringement claim against us, we could be required to:

  -  discontinue the use of certain processes,

  -  cease the manufacture, use, import and sale of infringing products,

  -  pay substantial damages,

  -  develop non-infringing technologies, or

  -  acquire licenses to the technology we had allegedly infringed.

If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or if we are subjected to litigation
relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters, our
business could suffer.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2003, we had 20,261 full-time employees including 742
employees seconded from Toshiba whose employment was transferred to Amkor as of
January 1, 2004. Of the total employee population, 15,349 were engaged in
manufacturing, 3,172 were engaged in manufacturing support, 344 were engaged in
research and development, 427 were engaged in marketing and sales and 969 were
engaged in finance, business management and administration. We believe that our
relations with our employees are good. We have never experienced a work stoppage
in any of our factories. Our employees in the U.S., the Philippines, Taiwan and
China are not represented by a collective bargaining unit. Certain members of
our factories in Korea and Japan are members of a union, and all employees at
these factories are subject to collective bargaining agreements.