ITEM 1. BUSINESS.


Background and Developments

        ANADIGICS, Inc. (the "Company") was incorporated in Delaware in 1984.
Our corporate headquarters are located at 141 Mt. Bethel Road, Warren, New
Jersey 07059, and our telephone number at that address is 908-668-5000.

        Our markets weakened substantially during 2001 and remained weak in
2002. With the well-publicized deterioration in the telecommunications industry,
we experienced a substantial decline in demand for our products. The downturn in
broadband demand resulted from a reduction in capital spending by many of our
customers and lower end-consumer demand and was accentuated in 2001 by high
component inventories at many of our customers, including components that we
previously supplied. While demand for our wireless products was substantially
down in 2001 primarily due to lower demand for TDMA products, customer demand
for our wireless products increased in 2002 resulting from greater demand for
our CDMA products. Consequently, our revenues declined from $172.3 million in
2000 to $84.8 million in 2001 and $82.6 million in 2002, and we reported a net
loss of $55.9 million for 2002. As of December 31, 2002, we had an accumulated
deficit of $164.1 million.

Overview

         ANADIGICS, Inc. designs and manufactures radio frequency integrated
circuit (RFIC) solutions for the wireless and broadband communications markets.
Our high frequency RFIC products enable manufacturers of communications
equipment to enhance overall system performance and reduce manufacturing cost
and time to market.

         In the wireless market, we focus on wireless handsets and wireless
infrastructure applications for transmission in the cellular (800 to 900 MHz)
and personal communications systems (PCS) (1800 to 1900 MHz) bands. In the
broadband markets, our focus is on applications for cable subscriber products,
cable infrastructure systems, and fiber optic communications systems. We believe
we have a competitive advantage due to our design, development and applications
expertise, our superior compound semiconductor technologies, our high-volume,
low-cost state-of-the-art manufacturing processes and expertise, and our strong
working relationships with leading original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).

         We design, develop and manufacture RFICs primarily using Gallium
Arsenide (GaAs) compound semiconductor substrates with various process
technologies: Metal Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors (MESFET),
Pseudomorphic High Electron Mobility Transistors (pHEMT), and Heterojunction
Bipolar Transistors (HBT).

         The quality and reliability of our products results from a
comprehensive design, characterization, qualification, and robust manufacturing
process. In addition to the design team located at our corporate headquarters in
Warren, New Jersey, we operate development centers in Richardson, Texas, Newbury
Park, California and Aalborg, Denmark.

         Our design and applications engineering staff is strategically active
and engaged with customers during all phases of design and production. This
strategy helps our customers streamline their design process and time to market,
achieve cost-effective and manufacturable designs, and ensure a smooth
transition into high-volume production.

         We have two company-owned fabrication facilities ("fabs") - a
state-of-the-art six-inch diameter analog GaAs fab located at our corporate
headquarters in Warren, New Jersey, and a two-inch diameter InP fab located in
Camarillo, California. Our six-inch wafer fab allows us to produce, at a small
incremental cost, more than twice the RF die per wafer compared with the current
industry norm four-inch wafer. We believe our strong manufacturing fabrication
capability, combined with extensive management expertise and innovative product
designs allows us to quickly develop and manufacture products in line with
market and customer requirements.

Industry Background

         Over the last decade, there have been remarkable developments in
electronic communications, as evidenced by the emergence of wireless
communications, Internet services and digital television services. Radio
frequency/microwave and integrated circuit technologies have enabled increases
in communications capacity and significant reductions in systems costs. The
wireless and broadband communications markets are beneficiaries of current
technological trends, including higher frequencies, digital modulation and
higher levels of electronic integration.

         Wireless communications are growing rapidly and replacing landline
telephone services in mature markets and are being built in lieu of landline
services in other emerging markets. Worldwide unit sales by OEMs of cellular/PCS
wireless handsets were approximately 395 million in 2002.



                                       3
<PAGE>

         Broadband markets are also benefiting from technological changes. Cable
television systems are moving from one-way analog signal distribution systems to
interactive digital systems offering increased and new video content, Internet
connection services and telephony. We estimate that approximately 14 million
digital cable television (CATV) set-top boxes were produced in 2002. The
production of cable modems, which allow high-speed Internet access through the
cable network, was approximately 9 million units in 2002. The continued build
out of the cable infrastructure network required a production of approximately
2.5 million line extenders, systems amplifiers and fiber nodes.

         Activity in broadband fiber optic networks is being driven by demand
from Internet and corporate users for high-speed data transfer capability and
the resultant demand for Internet, Local Area Networks (LAN), Metropolitan Area
Networks (MAN), and Storage Area Networks (SAN).

         Given these developments, OEMs are facing the following challenges and
need the following solutions from their suppliers:

         o        Shorter cycle times. In both the wireless and broadband
                  communications markets, manufacturers must bring new
                  subscriber products to market quickly in order to maintain
                  their market position. The development of multi-chip modules,
                  using advanced packaging techniques, and the development of
                  relationships with providers of RF reference designs is
                  imperative;

         o        Need for low-cost products. Wireless handsets, cable set-top
                  boxes and cable modems are increasingly becoming
                  consumer-driven, commodity products. Component suppliers must
                  be cost effective in order for OEMs to stay competitive; and

         o        Stronger supplier relationships. The digital, wireless, cable
                  and fiber optic industries are standards driven. Companies in
                  the communications industry must work very closely with their
                  suppliers in order to develop new products. Companies
                  therefore limit themselves to a small number of suppliers in
                  order to keep their competitive advantages.

The GaAs Advantage

         Through our research and development efforts, we have developed
expertise in producing cost-effective GaAs-based RFICs for high-volume
commercial applications. These circuits offer the performance attributes
required for radio frequency/microwave applications that are not easily
obtainable with silicon-based integrated circuits. GaAs transistors can operate
at frequencies greater than silicon transistors, and therefore can handle the
requirements of radio frequency/microwave applications. GaAs RFICs have a lower
noise figure than silicon-based integrated circuits, providing increased
sensitivity, less distortion and interference and better dynamic range, thereby
enabling systems to handle a wide range of signal strengths. GaAs is a
semi-insulating material that facilitates integration of the passive components
required in radio frequency/microwave applications. Finally, GaAs RFICs used in
transmitter applications are more power-efficient than silicon-based circuits,
allowing for longer battery life or use of smaller batteries.

The InGaP Advantage

         In the industry, there are two predominant commercially-viable types of
HBT process technologies. Earlier generations use either beryllium or carbon
doping in the base layer and Aluminum Gallium Arsenide (AlGaAs) in the emitter
layer. The state-of-the-art for HBT uses carbon doping in the base layer and
Indium Gallium Phosphide (InGaP) in the emitter layer.

         There are several significant advantages to InGaP. One advantage is
stability over a range of temperatures. An InGaP HBT device will experience only
an approximate 10% drop in gain over a range of 0 to 100 degrees Celsius, while
the gain loss in an AlGaAs device approximates 50%. An InGaP device has much
higher reliability than AlGaAs, giving the option to run the device at higher
temperatures. These advantages lead to smaller chip sizes and thus lower cost.
Finally, InGaP allows for more robust manufacturing because the material has the
advantage of a selective etch process not possible with AlGaAs.

         The InGaP advantages of performance, reliability and manufacturability
led to our decision to develop the world's first commercially-viable 6-inch
InGaP HBT process, which was completed in 2000 and complements our GaAs MESFET
technology.

ANADIGICS' Strategy

         Our objective is to be a leading supplier of RFICs for the wireless and
broadband communications markets. The cornerstone of our strategy is to
capitalize on opportunities in the wireless and broadband communications markets
by addressing applications that leverage our RFIC design and manufacturing
expertise and longstanding relationships with leading OEMs in these markets. The
key elements of this strategy include:



                                       4
<PAGE>

         Be First-to-Market with Proprietary Value-Added Products

         We intend to continue to design timely, cost-effective RFIC solutions
for our target markets. In developing prototypes, the combination of an
experienced engineering staff, a "quick-turn" wafer fabrication facility, the
flexibility of using both in-house and contracted product assembly, and a world
class product testing process allow us to develop parts and be ready for
customer evaluation in less than one month. This design efficiency contributes
to customer satisfaction and allows us to improve product designs rapidly for
manufacturing efficiency.

         Capitalize on World Class Manufacturing Capabilities, While Reducing
         Costs

         We will continue to focus on improving manufacturing performance and
customer service, while reducing costs. We believe we can effectively control
the critical phases of the production process in order to realize high
manufacturing yields, product quality and customer satisfaction. Our six-inch
wafer fab has provided increased manufacturing capacities and shorter cycle
times at a lower incremental cost than four-inch wafer fabs.

         Forge Strong Customer Relationships

         We have developed strong working relationships with our customers, many
of whom are leading OEMs in their markets. Because the target markets are
standards-driven, customer relationships are important. These relationships
provide us with product development opportunities and the ability to anticipate
future market needs. The rapid feedback received from our customers during the
product design phase increases the likelihood that our designs will meet our
customers' cost and performance requirements.

         Pursue Strategic Alliances and Investments

         We will continue to pursue strategic alliances and investments to
expand and improve upon our technologies, industry expertise, products and
market share. We expect that these alliances and investments will be
complementary to current activities and will enhance our ability to work with
leading OEMs to develop next generation solutions.

Target Markets and Products

         Wireless Communications

         The wireless communications market is a growing, dynamic market as a
result of increasing demand for:

         o        Portable voice and data communications;
         o        Smaller, lighter handsets offering increased functionality;
         o        Reliable access and voice quality comparable to land lines;
         o        Longer talk-time and standby time; and
         o        Wireless access to the Internet.

         Our RFIC products are used in handsets where small size, multi-band
operation and low power consumption are key features. Currently in the United
States, the two primary digital air interface communications standards are Code
Division Multiple Access (CDMA) and Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA). A
third standard, Global System for Mobile communication (GSM), is the most widely
deployed digital standard in the rest of the world, with a high degree of
deployment in Europe and Asia and increasing deployment in North America. We
currently offer and continue to bring to market an array of products for both
the handset and infrastructure markets for each of these major air interface
standards.

         We have developed single-band/dual-mode, dual-band/tri-mode InGaP HBT
power amplifier (PA) modules for the CDMA and GSM standards. InGaP HBT module
technology offers high efficiency, low power consumption and stability over a
range of temperatures, as well as a lower total solution cost allowing our
customers to build the transmitter section of the wireless handset more easily
and quickly by reducing design complexity and component counts.

         Our principal customers in the wireless market are Sony-Ericsson
("Ericsson"), which accounted for 44%, 25%, and 7% of our total net sales during
2000, 2001, and 2002, respectively, and Kyocera Wireless Corporation, which
accounted for 11% and 35% of our total net sales in 2001 and 2002, respectively.
No other customer in this market accounted for more than 10% of net sales in
2000, 2001 or 2002.

         The following table sets forth information regarding our principal
products in the wireless communications market:


                                       5
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                                        <C>
            Product                                                        Application
            Handset Products

            o  Power Amplifier (PA)                        Used in RF transmit chain of wireless handset to amplify
               monolithic microwave integrated             signal to base station. Consists essentially of GaAs MESFET
               circuits (MMICs)                            PA die in plastic package with metal contacts. Used
                                                           primarily in TDMA handsets

            o  Single-band PA module                       Encapsulates InGaP HBT PA die and certain passive
                                                           components in multi-layer laminate module. Used primarily in
                                                           CDMA handsets

            o  Dual-band PA module                         Encapsulates two InGaP HBT PA die, CMOS bias control chip,
                                                           and certain passive components in multi-layer laminate
                                                           module. Used primarily in GSM handsets

            o  PowerPlexer(TM)                             Encapsulates two InGaP HBT PA die, CMOS, bias control chip,
                                                           antenna switch, coupler, harmonic filter and passives in
                                                           multi-layer laminate module. Used in GSM handsets

            o  RF Switches                                 Used in wireless handsets and other wireless applications to switch
                                                           between receive and transmit modes and multiple frequency bands


          Infrastructure Products

            o  Driver Amplifiers                           Used in cellular base stations in the transmit chain

            o  Gain Blocks                                 Used in cellular base stations in the transmit chain

</TABLE>

         Broadband

         The trends that currently drive product development in the cable
television and cable modem markets are:

         o        Shift to digital cable television with interactive services;

         o        Demand for high speed Internet access; and

         o        Emergence of cable telephony.

         The convergence of these trends, enabled by digital transmission,
creates the need for innovative RFICs for cable television and cable modem
applications.

         Cable television systems, which traditionally delivered one-way analog
television programming, limited to a few entertainment channels, are
increasingly used to deliver a wide array of interactive video and other
services, such as high speed Internet access and telephony. In order to support
these new applications, cable system operators must upgrade both the bandwidth
(i.e., capacity) and quality of the infrastructure and terminal equipment. The
new equipment must also be able to handle digital as well as analog modulated
signals.

         Our cable products are used in CATV set-top boxes, cable modems, and
cable television infrastructure applications. We produce tuner and reverse
amplifier RFICs, as well as line amplifiers and systems amplifiers for
infrastructure applications. The tuner ICs are used in double conversion tuners
to receive analog and digital signals in the 50-860 megahertz frequency band.
Reverse amplifiers are used in cable modems and in certain cable set-top boxes
that require a reverse path for interactivity. These tuner and reverse amplifier
RFICs enable customers to accelerate and simplify their designs, and reduce
manufacturing complexity and costs.



                                       6
<PAGE>

         We have also developed GaAs RFIC line amplifiers to be used in 50-860
megahertz cable television infrastructure equipment, such as line extenders,
distribution amplifiers and system amplifiers. We have recently expanded our
product offerings in this area by introducing line amplifier RFICs that operate
at 24 volts.

         The principal customers in the cable and broadcast markets are
Motorola, Inc., which represented 26%, 32%, and 23% of total net sales in 2000,
2001, and 2002, respectively, and Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., which represented
less than 10% of our total net sales in each of those years. No other customer
in this market accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2000, 2001 or 2002.

         The following table sets forth information regarding our principal
products in the cable television/cable modems market:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

         Product                                                   Application
<S>                                                        <C>
         Subscriber Products:
            o  Upconverters                                Used in set-top box double conversion video tuners and cable
            o  Downconverters                              modem data tuners

            o  Reverse amplifiers                          Used in set-top boxes, cable modems and cable telephony
                                                           to transmit signals from a set-top box upstream to a cable company
                                                           headend for interactive applications


         Infrastructure Products:
            o  Line amplifiers                             Used in cable television systems to distribute signals from cable
                                                           headends to subscribers

            o  Drop amplifiers                             Used in cable television systems to amplify signals at individual
                                                           subscriber homes

</TABLE>

The fiber optic market is being driven by:

         o        Internet data traffic use;

         o        Implementation of corporate local area networks (LAN) and
                  storage area networks (SAN), which require high speed data
                  transfer capability;

         o        Upgrades of existing telecommunication and data communication
                  systems with fiber optic systems; and

         o        Expected build outs to Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN)


         Fiber optic communication systems use low-loss fiber optic cable to
link central office switches with one another and to connect the central office
to the serving area. Most telecommunication networks today are based on
Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) (United States and Japan) or SDH (Europe)
standards, which require high sensitivity, high bandwidth, and wide dynamic
range receivers. Fiber optic data communications systems use either Gigabit
Ethernet or Fibre Channel standards to achieve high-speed data transfer. The
Gigabit Ethernet standard has emerged as the most widely used in LAN
environments, as it addresses the need for short distance, high speed transfers
of large volumes of information. The Fibre Channel and emerging 2x Fibre Channel
standards have become the most widely used in SAN environments.

         The front end of most fiber optic receivers contains a photodetector
and a transimpedance amplifier (TIA), which are used in both fiber optic
telecommunications and data communications networks. Our GaAs TIAs for the
telecommunications networks are designed to meet the requirements of SONET
systems covering data speeds of OC-3 through OC-192 and for use in Dense
Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM) systems.



                                       7
<PAGE>

         For data communications receivers and transceivers, we sell short
wavelength (850 nanometer) monolithically-integrated metal-semiconductor-metal
photodiode and transimpedance amplifiers (MSM-TIAs) and long wavelength (1300
nanometer) positive-intrinsic-negative photodiodes and transimpedance amplifiers
(PIN TIAs) for the Gigabit Ethernet and Fibre Channel standards.

         The continued LAN/SAN growth is placing new demands on MANs to provide
expanded cost-effective capacity at 2.5 and 10 gigabits per second to meet the
needs of dedicated high-speed Internet users and the requirements for high-speed
communication between private LANs and remote storage. We have introduced 10
Gb/s TIAs and limiting amplifiers for Ethernet and SONET applications. The
demand for MAN solutions is expected to grow over the next four years.

         On April 2, 2001, we acquired all of the capital stock of Telecom
Devices Corp. ("Telcom"), an optoelectronic semiconductor manufacturer of indium
phosphide (InP) based "long wavelength" (1310 and 1550 nanometers) emitter
(light-emitting diode, or LED) and detector (photodiode) products for the
telecommunications and data communications markets. The Telcom division produces
active components used primarily for fiber optic applications in
telecommunications systems, data communications networks, CATV broadcast and
reception, fiber optic test and measurement equipment, and scientific, custom,
and military markets.

         No single customer in the fiber optic market is responsible for more
than 10% of net sales in 2000, 2001, or 2002. The following table sets forth
information regarding our principal products in the fiber optic market:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

         Product                                            Application
<S>                                                        <C>
         Fiber Optic Products:
            o  Transimpedance amplifiers                   Used in the receivers or transceivers of a telecom fiber optic
                                                           link to amplify the signal received

            o  Limiting amplifiers                         Used in the receivers or transceivers of a telecom fiber optic
                                                           link to provide a voltage limited output

            o  Metal semiconductor metal                   Used in the transceiver of a datacom fiber optic link to detect
               transimpedance amplifiers                   and amplify short wavelength optical signals
               (MSM-TIA)

            o  Integrated Detector Preamp(IDP)             Used in the transceiver of a datacom fiber optic link to detect
               transimpedance amplifiers                   and amplify long wavelength optical signals
               (PIN-TIA)

            o  Photodiodes                                 Long wavelength detectors for SONET/SDH receivers

            o  Light-Emitting Diodes (LEDs)                Long wavelength emitters

</TABLE>


Marketing, Sales, Distribution and Customer Support

         We primarily sell our products directly to our customers worldwide. We
have developed close working relationships with leading companies in the
broadband and wireless communications markets. Additionally, we selectively use
independent manufacturers' representatives and Richardson Electronics, a
worldwide distributor, to complement our direct sales and customer support
efforts and in 2002 we continued to evaluate, upgrade and expand our sales
representative organization. We believe this is critical to our objective of
expanding our customer base, especially as we expand our product portfolio.

         We believe that the technical nature of our products and markets
demands an extraordinary commitment to close relationships with our customers.
The sales and marketing staff, assisted by the technical staff and senior
management, visit prospective and existing customers worldwide on a regular
basis. Additionally, both field and factory sales personnel communicate
regularly with our customers. We believe that these contacts are vital to the
development of close, long-term working relationships with our customers, and in
obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and information regarding technical
and market trends.

         Our design and applications engineering staff is actively involved with
customers during all phases of design and production. We provide our customers
with engineering data and up-to-date product application notes, and communicate
with our customers' engineers on a regular basis to assist in resolving
technical problems on and off site. In most cases the design and applications
engineers obtain prototypes from our customers in order to troubleshoot and
identify potential improvements to the design in parallel with our customers'
efforts. This strategy helps our customers speed up their design process,
achieve cost-effective and manufacturable designs, and ensure a smooth
transition into high-volume production.



                                       8
<PAGE>

         Our policy is to provide our customers with applications engineering
support at our customers' design locations and factories throughout the world,
generally within 48 hours of a customer request. Our sales are made pursuant to
customer purchase orders.

Manufacturing, Assembly and Testing

         Manufacturing

         We fabricate substantially all of our integrated circuits in our
six-inch diameter GaAs wafer fab in Warren, New Jersey and in our two-inch
diameter InP fab in Camarillo, California.

         During 2001 we substantially completed the expansion of our Warren
facility, doubling the footprint to a 19,000 square foot fab, including 10,000
square feet of Class 100 "clean room" space. Based on physical floor space,
weekly production capacity in the Warren facility is approximately 1,600
equivalent six-inch MESFET wafers (adjusting for the additional mask layers, or
processing steps, inherent in HBT production). Based on equipment currently
installed, present weekly capacity is 800 equivalent six-inch MESFET wafers,
although this space can be equipped to expand capacity as market conditions
require. On the basis of equivalent four-inch MESFET wafers, which is the
industry norm, present weekly capacity is 1,800 wafers per week. See "Risk
Factors - We may face constraints on our manufacturing capacity which would
limit our ability to increase sales volumes."

         The InP fab in Camarillo, acquired as part of the Telcom Devices
Corporation transaction in April of 2001, is a 22,000 square foot facility with
4,000 square feet of fab clean room. Production capacity is currently 50 InP
wafers per week per shift.

         Our six-inch diameter InGaP HBT process, including a backside VIA hole
process, was the first in the industry and is the technology platform for our
newer-generation PA module wireless applications and OC-192 fiber Electro
Optical Modulator Drivers (EOMD) and TIAs. The advantages of better performance
over a range of temperatures and higher reliability lead to smaller chip sizes
and thus lower cost. InGaP also allows for more robust manufacturing because the
material has the advantage of a selective etch process not possible with AlGaAs.

         Our wafer processing technologies have been developed for low cost,
high yield, rapid throughput and short cycle-time manufacturing. Our GaAs MESFET
process uses ion implant variations to optimize performance and yield, allowing
us to produce high-linearity, low-noise, receiver integrated circuits or
transmitter integrated circuits with high power and efficiency. MESFET is the
technology platform underlying the majority of our broadband products.

         Our GaAs pHEMT manufacturing process achieves extremely high electron
mobility. Devices manufactured using this process have better sensitivity and
bandwidth than conventional MESFET devices, and offer better stability at higher
frequencies. The pHEMT process is an enabling technology for our wireless switch
products.

         Our Warren manufacturing processes were first certified as ISO 9001
compliant in December 1993. Since then, we have maintained compliance with this
standard.

         Our manufacturing process technology includes our two-inch InP process
in Camarillo. InP applications for discrete active devices are widespread in
communications networking, making it the natural starting place for wholesale
integration of passive devices for a complete system on a chip. As a
semiconductor material, InP can provide all-in-one integrated functionality that
includes light generation, detection, amplification, high-speed modulation and
switching, as well as passive splitting, combining and routing. The same
material can be used to make high-speed modulators, switches, amplifiers and
detectors, or just passive waveguides for interconnecting these diverse devices.

         Assembly

         Fabricated GaAs wafers are shipped to contractors in Asia for packaging
into monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs) or for assembly into
modules.

         The components within mobile phones have become increasingly
integrated, enabling the development of ever smaller, lighter, and more
efficient phones. However, integration in the RF subsystem at the IC level is
considerably more challenging, given that various components require different
manufacturing processes for optimal performance. Typical RF processes include
pHEMT, MESFET, HBT, and RF CMOS. The choice of process for various RFICs is
typically based on a trade-off between performance (often measured by efficiency
and linearity) and cost. In general, the process selection will depend on the
relative weight given to performance versus cost. In low-end phones, cost will
dominate, and less-efficient, less-costly components will be used. On the other
hand, in high-end phones, the weight will shift to better performance.

         Since the processes cannot be easily or economically integrated onto a
single die, multi-chip modules that combine multiple die within a single package
have emerged, enabling the selection of the optimal process technology for each
IC within the package, while providing enhanced integration at the system level.
These solutions generate significant size and weight reductions in handset
component circuitry, while simultaneously increasing the reliability of the
components.


                                       9
<PAGE>

         A number of challenges, outlined below, had to be overcome in the move
from pure MMIC suppliers to fully integrated module manufacturers:

         Design complexity: Within a cellphone, the RF section arguably
         represents the greatest design challenge for engineers. Modules place
         the burden of designing and optimizing RF front-end subsystems on RFIC
         manufacturers. The suppliers must now focus on providing the optimal IC
         process (e.g., InGaP HBT for PAs) and then integrate the technology
         into a well-designed module that also incorporates additional passive
         and control circuitry. The quality of the RF module design will
         ultimately drive the device's performance and manufacturability.

         Increased cost: Modules are substantially more expensive to produce
         than individual IC components. Modules require extensive design and
         engineering expertise, new production processes, and additional
         assembly costs. Many of the necessary components (e.g., discretes and
         passives) must be bought from outside vendors. Consequently, the gross
         margin is generally lower for modules than for discrete RF MMICs.

         Manufacturing challenges: In addition to the increased costs of
         designing modules, achieving sufficient yields on new products can be
         problematic. Since RF modules are a new development in the world of
         cellphone chips, RFIC companies had little or no experience in
         manufacturing them. As a result, gross margins were under pressure as
         we climbed the learning curve. In order to attain high "final test"
         yields, the challenge was, and continues to be, to achieve high yields
         in the fab, in assembly, and in test.

         Despite the challenges, the shift to modules presents us with the
potential for increased sales, based on two factors:

         Modules increase the overall component content that is sold to handset
         OEMs. Owning and controlling as much of the content as possible will be
         a key factor of differentiation among future module participants.

         The ability to gain market share is the second factor. Not all
         MMIC-level RFIC suppliers will successfully make the transition to
         providing modules, causing a consolidation of overall RF suppliers in
         the industry.

         We believe that a module approach (rather than MMIC) results in our
customers getting their product to market more rapidly at a lower overall
end-product cost to our customers due largely to the reduced parts count and
reduction in engineering effort by our customers. We believe ANADIGICS is one of
the best-positioned companies to capitalize on the shift toward multi-chip
modules because we possess both extensive process breadth (a key advantage, as
modules typically incorporate numerous process technologies) and a large
portfolio of RF components (e.g., PAs, transceivers, filters, and discretes).

         Final Test

         After assembly, packaged integrated circuits are tested prior to
shipment to our customers. Increasingly, these test activities are being
performed by third party contractors in Southeast Asia.

          In early 2002, we announced an agreement with Universal
Communications, Inc. ("UCOMM") for outsourcing a majority of our production RF
testing operations. Under the agreement, the production RF testing operation
will be transferred closer to our module assembly contractors in Southeast Asia,
which will add considerable efficiencies to the device manufacturing process and
further reduce product cycle times and manufacturing costs.

         In line with our procedure of 100% RF testing of all parts before
shipping, the majority of production testing is now performed by UCOMM. This
agreement supports our initiative to reduce manufacturing costs by lowering test
cost per unit.

         See "Risk Factors - We may face constraints on our manufacturing
capacity which would limit our ability to increase sales volumes," "The
manufacturing of our products could be delayed as a result of the outsourcing of
our test operations" and "We depend on foreign semiconductor assembly
contractors and a loss of an assembly contractor could result in delays or
reductions in product shipment."

Raw Materials

         GaAs wafers, InP wafers, HBT/pHEMT epitaxial wafers, passive
components, other raw materials, and equipment used in the production of our
integrated circuits are available from a limited number of sources. See "Risk
Factors - Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited
which could result in delays or reductions in product shipments."


                                       10
<PAGE>

Research and Development

         We have made significant investments in our proprietary processes,
including product design, wafer fabrication and integrated circuit testing,
which we believe gives us a competitive advantage. Research and development
expenses were $39.8 million, $37.8 million, and $29.7 million in 2000, 2001, and
2002, respectively. InGaP HBT process and circuit development were completed in
2000, complementing our GaAs MESFET technology base. Our research and
development efforts in 2001 were primarily focused on developing high yield, low
cost, high volume production of InGaP HBT integrated circuit products for the
wireless and broadband communications markets. In 2002, development activities
focused on improving performance relative to the size of our CDMA products and
developing products to compete in the GSM market. Our HBT process uses the more
advanced technique of InGaP emitter layers, which gives our products enhanced
temperature stability and increased reliability.

         As of December 31, 2002, we had approximately 120 engineers assigned
primarily to research and development.

         Our wireless power amplifier capability has expanded from
plastic-packaged GaAs RF integrated circuit products to RF modules incorporating
multiple technologies. This capability is critical to encapsulating RF
intellectual property and know-how into a module that may be used to shrink the
time-to-market for cellular phone manufacturers. Our RF power amplifier modules
use a multi-layer laminate substrate to combine our proprietary InGaP HBT power
amplifier integrated circuits with custom-designed CMOS controllers and passive
components.

         Module integration capability required extending our design tools in
several dimensions. Electromagnetic simulation of laminate substrates to design
embedded passive components and model parasitic effects were added to our RF
design tool set. In addition, the ability to simulate at the module level was
greatly enhanced through our partnership with a leading manufacturer of
electronic design automation tools.

         Additionally, several silicon CMOS components were developed to support
our module efforts. We currently do not intend to manufacture in-house with this
technology as we believe there will be adequate external foundry capacity
available. See "Risk Factors - Sources for certain components, materials and
equipment are limited which could result in delays or reductions in product
shipments."

Customers

       We receive most of our revenues from a few significant customers. See
"Risk Factors - We depend on a small number of customers; a loss of or a
decrease in purchases and/or change in purchasing patterns by one of these
customers would materially and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to
forecast revenue."

Employees

         As of December 31, 2002, we had 454 employees, including five employees
in Denmark who were members of the Danish Engineering Union. We believe our
labor relations to be good and we have never experienced a work stoppage. During
the year, our workforce decreased by 103 employees primarily through
restructurings.

Competition

         Competition in all of the markets for our current products is intense;
competition is on the basis of performance, price and delivery. Competitors in
the wireless market are suppliers of both discrete devices and integrated
circuits, and include Hitachi, Ltd., RF Micro Devices, Inc.,and Skyworks
Solutions, Inc. and certain of our customers who design and fabricate their own
in-house solutions.

         Within the Broadband markets, which include cable and broadcast and
fiber optic markets, our competitors are also primarily manufacturers of both
discrete components and integrated circuits. Our competitors include Analog
Devices, Inc., Applied Micro Circuits Corp., Conexant Systems, Inc., Maxim
Integrated Products, Inc., Microtune, Inc., Phillips Electronics N.V. and
Vitesse Semiconductor Corp., as well as certain of our customers who design and
fabricate their own in-house solutions.

         Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial,
technical, manufacturing and marketing resources. Increased competition could
adversely affect our revenue and profitability through price reductions or
reduced demand for our products. See "Risk Factors - We face intense
competition, which could result in a decrease in our products' prices and
sales."

Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights

         It is our practice to seek U.S. and foreign patent and copyright
protection on our products and developments where appropriate and to protect our
valuable technology under U.S. and foreign laws affording protection for trade
secrets and for semiconductor chip designs. We own 27 U.S. patents and have
pending U.S. patent applications and one pending foreign patent application
filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. The U.S. patents were issued between
1988 and 2002 and will expire between 2008 and 2021.



                                       11
<PAGE>

         We rely primarily upon trade secrets, technical know-how and other
unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and
manufacturing activities. To protect our trade secrets, technical know-how and
other proprietary information, our employees are required to enter into
agreements providing for maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of
rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. We have also entered into
non-disclosure agreements to protect our confidential information delivered to
third parties in conjunction with possible corporate collaborations and for
other purposes. See "Risk Factors - We may not be successful in protecting our
own intellectual property rights or in avoiding claims that we infringed on the
intellectual property rights of others."


Environmental Matters

         Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental
laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may
have adverse effects on human health or the environment. These laws, regulations
or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediating, and for certain
damages resulting from, sites of past releases of hazardous materials. We
believe that we currently conduct, and have conducted, our activities and
operations in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws, and
that costs arising from existing environmental laws will not have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you, however, that
the environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we
will not incur significant costs in the future in order to comply with these
laws. See "Risk Factors - We are subject to stringent environmental regulation."

Available Information

         Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 are available free of charge through our website (WWW.ANADIGICS.COM) as
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with,
or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

      *******************************************************************

                                  RISK FACTORS

CERTAIN STATEMENTS IN THIS REPORT ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (AS THAT TERM
IS DEFINED IN THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED) THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND
UNCERTAINTIES. THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS CAN GENERALLY BE IDENTIFIED AS
SUCH BECAUSE THE CONTEXT OF THE STATEMENT WILL INCLUDE WORDS SUCH AS WE
"BELIEVE", "ANTICIPATE", "EXPECT" OR WORDS OF SIMILAR IMPORT. SIMILARLY,
STATEMENTS THAT DESCRIBE OUR FUTURE PLANS, OBJECTIVES, ESTIMATES OR GOALS ARE
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. THE CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS MADE IN THIS REPORT SHOULD
BE READ AS BEING APPLICABLE TO ALL RELATED FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WHEREVER
THEY APPEAR IN THIS REPORT. IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS
AND DEVELOPMENTS TO BE MATERIALLY DIFFERENT FROM THOSE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED BY
THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS PRESENTED HEREIN INCLUDE THE RISK FACTORS
DISCUSSED BELOW, AS WELL AS THOSE DISCUSSED ELSEWHERE HEREIN.

         IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, THE
FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED CAREFULLY IN EVALUATING AN
INVESTMENT IN ANADIGICS, INC. AND IN ANALYZING OUR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.

                           Risks Related to ANADIGICS

After we experienced a significant downturn in demand across each of our product
lines in 2001, our revenues declined significantly during 2001 and decreased
marginally in the year ended December 31, 2002, resulting in net losses for each
of the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2002.

         Our markets weakened substantially during 2001 and remained weak in
2002. The market softness results from a reduction in capital spending by many
of our customers and lower end-consumer demand and was accentuated in 2001 by
high component inventories at most of our customers, including components that
we previously supplied. Consequently, our revenues declined from $172.3 million
in 2000 to $84.8 million in 2001 to $82.6 million in 2002. For the year ended
December 31, 2002, we reported a net loss of $55.9 million, including charges
for goodwill impairment, cumulative effect of an accounting change, asset
impairments and restructuring and other charges totaling $30.1 million, as well
as a $12.6 million gain on the repurchase of convertible notes and a $4.3
million tax benefit from tax loss carrybacks. As of December 31, 2002, we had an
accumulated deficit of $164.1 million.


                                       12
<PAGE>

         We cannot accurately predict whether or when demand will strengthen
across our product lines. If we are unable to reverse the recent trend of
revenue declines and net losses, either because the economy does not improve or
because we under-perform, our ability to compete in a very difficult market may
be materially and adversely affected.

Our high fixed costs and low production volumes have adversely affected our
gross margins and profitability.

         Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment
and manufacturing overhead, are fixed. Accordingly, reduced demand for our
products causes our fixed production costs to be allocated across reduced
production volumes, which adversely affects our gross margin and profitability.
In the future, improved utilization of our manufacturing capacity will primarily
depend on growth in demand for our wireless products. Our ability to reduce
expenses is further constrained because we must continue to invest in research
and development in order to maintain our competitive position. Lower production
volumes have resulted in depressed gross margin relative to 2000; for the year
ended December 31, 2002, our gross margin was 8.8% of net sales as compared with
48.1% of net sales in the year ended December 31, 2000. We cannot accurately
predict if or when production volumes will increase.

We depend on a small number of customers; a loss of or a decrease in purchases
and/or change in purchasing patterns by one of these customers would materially
and adversely affect our revenues and our ability to forecast revenue.

         We receive most of our revenues from a few significant customers and
their subcontractors. Sales to Ericsson and Motorola accounted for 44% and 26%,
respectively, of 2000 net sales. Sales to Motorola, Ericsson and Kyocera
accounted for 32%, 25% and 11%, respectively of net sales during 2001. Sales to
Kyocera and Motorola accounted for 35% and 23%, respectively, of 2002 net sales.
No other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales during these
periods. Our operating results have been materially and adversely affected in
the past by the failure of anticipated orders to be realized and by deferrals or
cancellations of orders as a result of changes in customer requirements. If we
were to lose Kyocera, Motorola or another major customer, or if sales to
Kyocera, Motorola or another major customer were to decrease materially, results
of operations would be materially and adversely affected.

         Several of our customers have reduced the lead times that they give us
when they order products from us. While this trend has enabled us to reduce our
inventories, it also restricts our ability to forecast future revenues.

Our results of operations can vary significantly.

         The semiconductor industry has been cyclical and seasonal. The industry
has experienced significant economic downturns, involving diminished product
demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices and production
over-capacity. Our results of operations have been subject to significant
quarterly fluctuations. As a result, we may experience substantial
period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results. Investors should not
rely on our results of operations for any previous period as an indicator of
what results may be for any future period.

Our announced restructuring may have insufficiently addressed market conditions.

         In 2001 and 2002, we announced restructuring plans in response to a
sharp downturn in our industry. Under our restructuring plans, we have incurred
charges relating to a reduction in our workforce, impairment of certain
manufacturing and research fixed assets, and the consolidation of facilities.
From January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2002, our workforce was reduced by over
30%, primarily through restructuring initiatives. We may have incorrectly
anticipated the extent of the long-term market decline for our products and
services and we may be forced to restructure further or may incur further
operating charges due to poor business conditions.

We will need to keep pace with rapid product and process development and
technological changes to be competitive.

         Rapid changes in both product and process technologies characterize the
markets for our products. Because these technologies are continually evolving,
we believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to
continue to improve our product and process technologies and develop new
products and process technologies. If a competing technology emerges that is, or
is perceived to be, superior to our existing technology and we are unable to
develop and/or implement the new technology successfully or to develop and
implement a competitive and economic alternative technology, our results of
operations would be materially and adversely affected. We will need to make
substantial investments to develop these enhancements and technologies, and we
cannot assure investors that funds for these investments will be available or
that these enhancements and technologies will be successful.

Our products have experienced rapidly declining unit prices.

         In each of the markets where we compete, prices of established products
tend to decline significantly over time. Accordingly, in order to remain
competitive, we believe that we must continue to develop product enhancements
and new technologies that will either slow the price declines of our products or
reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products. If we fail to do so,
our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and
adversely affected.



                                       13
<PAGE>

The variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins.

         Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending
on the complexity of a particular integrated circuit's design and our experience
in manufacturing that type of integrated circuit. We have experienced
difficulties in achieving planned yields in the past, particularly in
pre-production and upon initial commencement of full production volumes, which
have adversely affected our gross margins.

         Regardless of the process technology used, the fabrication of
integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the
fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected
or numerous integrated circuits on each wafer to be nonfunctional, thereby
reducing yields. These difficulties can include:

         o        defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns
                  onto our wafers;

         o        impurities in the materials used;

         o        contamination of the manufacturing environment; and

         o        equipment failure.

         Many of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed and average
selling prices for our products tend to decline over time. Therefore, it is
critical for us to improve the number of shippable integrated circuits per wafer
and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain and improve
our results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher
unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results
and have done so in the past. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer
periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new
products or introduction of new process technologies. In either case, our
results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely
affected.

We depend on foreign semiconductor assembly contractors and a loss of an
assembly contractor could result in delays or reductions in product shipment.

         We do not assemble our integrated circuits or multi-chip modules.
Instead, we provide the integrated circuit die and, in some cases, packaging and
other components to assembly vendors located primarily in Asia. We maintain one
qualified service supplier for each assembly process. If we are unable to obtain
sufficient high quality and timely assembly service, or if we lose any of our
current assembly vendors, or if means of transportation to our vendors are
interrupted, we would experience delays or reductions in product shipment,
and/or reduced product yields, that could materially and adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

The manufacturing of our products could be delayed as a result of the
outsourcing of our test operations.

         We outsource most of the testing of certain of our products to a
company located in Southeast Asia. The failure of the vendor we selected or
other third parties to maintain our standards of testing or complete the testing
of our products in a timely manner, could subject us to manufacturing delays
which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition. We also test some of our products internally.

The short life cycles of some of our products may leave us with obsolete or
excess inventories.

         The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life
cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. For example, we
estimate that current life cycles for cellular and PCS telephone handsets, and
in turn our cellular and PCS products, are approximately 12 to 24 months.
Products with short life cycles require us to manage production and inventory
levels closely. We cannot assure investors that obsolete or excess inventories,
which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for
our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our
products are designed, will not affect us beyond the inventory charges that we
took during 2001.

Sources for certain components, materials and equipment are limited, which could
result in delays or reductions in product shipments.

           We do not manufacture any of the starting wafers, packaging or
passive components used in the production of our gallium arsenide integrated
circuits. Wafers and packaging components are available from a limited number of
sources. If we are unable to obtain these wafers or components in the required
quantities and quality, we could experience delays or reductions in product
shipments, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations
and financial condition.



                                       14
<PAGE>

           We depend on a limited number of vendors to supply equipment used in
our manufacturing processes. When demand for semiconductor manufacturing
equipment is high, lead times for delivery of such equipment can be substantial.
We cannot assure investors that we would not lose potential sales if required
manufacturing equipment is unavailable and, as a result, we are unable to
maintain or increase our production levels.

We depend heavily on key personnel.

         Our success depends in part on keeping key technical, marketing, sales
and management personnel. We must also continue to attract qualified personnel.
The competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people
with experience, particularly in radio frequency engineering, integrated circuit
design, and technical marketing and support, is limited. We cannot be sure that
we will be able to attract and retain other skilled personnel in the future.

We face intense competition, which could result in a decrease in our products'
prices and sales.

         The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is
characterized by rapid technological change. We compete primarily with
manufacturers of discrete gallium arsenide and silicon semiconductors and with
manufacturers of gallium arsenide and silicon integrated circuits. We expect
increased competition from:

         o        other gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturers who
                  may replace us as a supplier to an original equipment
                  manufacturer or otherwise dilute our sales to an original
                  equipment manufacturer;

         o        silicon analog integrated circuit manufacturers; and

         o        companies which may penetrate the radio frequency/microwave
                  integrated circuit communications market with other
                  breakthrough technologies.

Increased competition could result in:

         o        decreased prices of our integrated circuits;

         o        reduced demand for our products; and

         o        a reduction in our ability to recover development-engineering
                  costs.

         Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

         Most of our current and potential competitors, including Hitachi Ltd.,
Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Microtune Inc., Motorola, RF Micro Devices Inc.
and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. have significantly greater financial, technical,
manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We cannot assure investors
that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors.

We are subject to stringent environmental regulation.

         We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements
governing the protection of the environment. These environmental regulations
include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of
toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in or resulting from our
manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with environmental laws could subject
us to substantial liability or force us to significantly change our
manufacturing operations. In addition, under some of these laws and regulations,
we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties
are contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination.

Our international sales and operations involve foreign exchange risks.

         Sales to customers located outside North America (based on shipping
addresses and not on the locations of ultimate end users) accounted for 60%, 63%
and 47% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002,
respectively. We expect that revenues derived from international sales will
continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales.

         In addition, independent third parties located in Asia supply a
substantial portion of the starting wafers and packaging components that we use
in the production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits, and assemble nearly
all of our products.

         Due to our reliance on international sales and on foreign suppliers and
assemblers, we are subject to risks of conducting business outside of the United
States, including primarily those arising from currency fluctuations, which
could affect the price of our products and/or the cost of producing them.



                                       15
<PAGE>

We may pursue selective acquisitions and alliances and the management and
integration of additional operations could be expensive and could divert
management time and acquisitions may dilute the ownership of our current
shareholders.

         As part of our strategy, we will selectively pursue acquisitions and
alliances. Our ability to complete acquisitions or alliances is dependent upon,
and may be limited by, the availability of suitable candidates and capital. In
addition, acquisitions and alliances involve risks that could materially
adversely affect our operating results, including the management time that may
be diverted from operations in order to pursue and complete such transactions
and difficulties in integrating and managing the additional operations and
personnel of acquired companies. We can not assure investors that we will be
able to obtain the capital necessary to consummate acquisitions or alliances on
satisfactory terms, if at all. Further, any businesses that we acquire will
likely have their own capital needs, which may be significant, which we would be
called upon to satisfy independent of the acquisition price. Future acquisitions
or alliances could result in additional debt, equity, costs and contingent
liabilities, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition. Any such additional debt could subject us to
substantial and burdensome covenants and any such equity could be materially
dilutive to existing stockholders. The growth that may result from future
acquisitions or alliances may place significant strains on our resources,
systems and management. If we are unable to effectively manage such growth by
implementing systems, expanding our infrastructure and hiring, training and
managing employees, our ability to offer our products could be materially
harmed.

We may face constraints on our manufacturing capacity which would limit our
ability to increase sales volumes.

         We believe that our expanded six-inch wafer fabrication facility should
be able to satisfy our forecasted production needs. However, if production
volumes were to increase significantly from expected levels, we might be
required to hire, train and manage additional production personnel in order to
successfully increase production capacity at our facility. We cannot assure
investors that we would be able to implement these changes successfully. A delay
for any reason in increasing capacity would limit our ability to increase sales
volumes. In addition, if we fail to increase production and do not have
sufficient capacity to satisfy the demand for our products, our relationships
with customers could be harmed.

We have incurred, and may continue to incur, unanticipated expenses resulting
from the financial difficulties of the lessor of our principal manufacturing
facility.

         The lessor on the lease for our headquarters building in Warren, New
Jersey is currently the debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding which commenced in
December 2001. During the fourth quarter of 2001, we recognized special charges
relating to this proceeding. No assurance can be given that we will not incur
any additional charges associated with this proceeding.

We may not be successful in protecting our own intellectual property rights or
in avoiding claims that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of
others.

         Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and
copyrights, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on
the proprietary rights of third parties.

         As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have been notified, and
may be notified in the future, that we may be infringing on certain patent
and/or other intellectual property rights of others. We are currently reviewing
claims from two sources alleging that we are or may be infringing certain
patents. We cannot assure investors that we will not be subject to patent
litigation to defend our products or processes against claims of patent
infringement or other intellectual property claims. Any such litigation could
result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. If we determine that
we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot
assure investors that we would be able to obtain any required licenses on
commercially reasonable terms.

         In addition to patent and copyright protection, we also rely on trade
secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented proprietary information
relating to our product development and manufacturing activities, which we seek
to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators and
employees. We cannot assure investors that these agreements will not be
breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade
secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or
independently discovered by others.
