Item 1. Business — Overview 

      We design, develop, manufacture and distribute high-performance compound semiconductor substrates comprising gallium arsenide (GaAs), indium phosphide (InP) and germanium (Ge). Our substrate products are used primarily in wireless communications, lighting display applications, and fiber optic communications. We believe our proprietary vertical gradient freeze, or VGF, technique for manufacturing compound semiconductor substrates provides significant benefits over other methods and has enabled us to become a leading manufacturer of compound semiconductor substrates. We pioneered the commercial use of VGF technology to manufacture GaAs substrates and subsequently used VGF technology to manufacture substrates from InP, and Ge. Some of our competitors followed our lead by developing their own versions of VGF technology. Customers for our substrates include United Epitaxy Company, Motorola, Agilent Technologies, Samsung, EMCORE, Kopin, IQE, and Sumika. Over the past four years, we have implemented an initiative, which is now largely complete, to reduce the cost of manufacturing our substrates by moving most of our operations to China and by investing in sources of low cost raw materials. 

      On June 24, 2003, the Company’s Board of Directors approved management’s plan to exit the Company’s unprofitable opto-electronics business. The disposition was a result of continuing operating losses and negative cash flows from the division and significant uncertainty regarding future profitability. 

      We were incorporated in California in December 1986 and reincorporated in Delaware in May 1988. We changed our name from American Xtal Technology, Inc. to AXT, Inc. in July 2000. Our principal offices are located at 4281 Technology Drive, Fremont, California 94538, and our telephone number at this address is (510) 683-5900. Our web site is www.axt.com; however, the information on our web site does not constitute a part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated herein. We make available, free of charge, on or through our web site, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports. 

Industry Background 

      Historically, most semiconductors were created on a single crystal base material, or substrate, of silicon. Today, however, many electronic and opto-electronics semiconductors are being developed with requirements that exceed the capabilities of silicon. These semiconductors address the continually increasing demand to send, receive and display information on high-speed wireless and wireline networks. This demand creates a growing need for power-efficient high-performance semiconductors that can operate at high frequencies and can be produced cost-effectively in large volumes. These semiconductors enable the growth and development of a wide range of end user applications. For example, Gartner, Inc., an independent research firm, expects 

1 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

worldwide mobile terminal production to grow from approximately 510 million units in 2003 to approximately 560 million units in 2004. 
      Other examples of applications for these systems include: 

   
  •  voice and high-speed wireless data systems;  
  
  •  infrared emitters and optical detectors in computer systems;  
  
  •  fiber optic networks and optical systems within these networks;  
  
  •  selected wi-fi networks  
  
  •  solid-state lighting, including exterior and interior automobile lighting; and  
  
  •  satellite communications systems.  


      As a result of the limitations of silicon-based technologies, semiconductor device manufacturers use compound semiconductor substrates to improve the performance of semiconductor devices and to enable these new applications. This use occurs even though these compound semiconductor substrates are more expensive than silicon. Compound semiconductor substrates are composed of multiple elements that include a metal, such as gallium, aluminum or indium, and a non-metal, such as arsenic, phosphorus or nitrogen. The resulting compounds include gallium arsenide, indium phosphide and gallium nitride. Advantages of devices manufactured on compound substrates over devices manufactured using silicon substrates include: 

   
  •  operation at higher speeds;  
  
  •  lower power consumption;  
  
  •  less noise and distortion; and  
  
  •  opto-electronic properties that enable devices to emit and detect light.  


      A key step in producing a compound semiconductor substrate is to grow a crystal of the materials. Historically, two processes were used to grow crystals: the Liquid Encapsulated Czochralski, or LEC, technique and the Horizontal-Bridgeman, or HB, technique. We believe two trends reduced the appeal of these techniques: more semiconductor devices are being formed using an epitaxial process and semiconductor device manufacturers are switching their production lines to larger diameter substrates, including six-inch diameters for electronic device applications and three- and four-inch for opto-electronic device applications. The LEC and HB techniques each have difficulties producing high quality, low-cost compound semiconductor substrates for epitaxial processing. Substrates produced using the LEC technique have a high volume of defects as size increases beyond four-inches in diameter. The HB technique has been unable to reliably produce substrates more than three-inches in diameter. 

      We introduced our VGF technique in 1986 to respond to the limitations inherent in the LEC and HB techniques, and, in recent years, some of our competitors who previously relied on the LEC or HB methods have also developed their own versions of VGF. We believe that a majority of the substrates sold commercially in 2003 for electronic device applications were manufactured using the VGF or similar techniques. 

      Compound semiconductor substrates enable the development of a wide range of electronic products including power amplifiers and radio frequency integrated circuits used in wireless handsets. Compound substrates can also be used to create opto-electronic products including high brightness light emitting diodes, or HBLEDs, and vertical cavity surface emitting lasers, or VCSELs, used in solid-state lighting and fiber optic communications, respectively. 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

The AXT Advantage 

      We are a leading developer and supplier of high-performance compound semiconductor substrates. There are three key causes of our success: 

      Our VGF technology is a competitive advantage. We pioneered the commercial use of VGF technology to manufacture GaAs substrates and we believe that through the use of VGF we became a leading worldwide supplier of GaAs substrates. Our VGF process produces substrates with high mechanical strength and physical and chemical uniformity, as well as low crystal defect densities. The following changes in our customers’ technologies are increasing the share of substrates sold with these features: 

   
  •  Greater use of epitaxy rather than ion implantation. Many of the newest generation of high-performance semiconductor devices for fiber optic and wireless communications applications, including heterojunction bipolar transistors, or HBTs, and pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistors, or PHEMTs, are popular because they offer lower power consumption and better device linearity than their predecessors. These devices are created using epitaxial processed substrates. Our VGF substrates are more suitable for these applications than are products manufactured using LEC and HB technologies, and competing materials such as silicon germanium, or SiGe.  
  
  •  Switch to six-inch diameter wafers. Many semiconductor device manufacturers switched their GaAs production lines to six-inch diameter substrates in order to reduce unit costs and increase capacity. We were among the first competitors able to deliver large volumes of six-inch diameter VGF substrates and retain a significant amount of manufacturing capacity for this product.  
  
  •  Customer technology independence. Our semiconductor device manufacturing customers often compete among themselves. For example, several of our customers compete for technological leadership in the wireless handset market. These customers or end-users all manufacture their devices on GaAs substrates. We are, therefore, largely immune from the effects of such competition and benefit from an overall need for faster, more power efficient electronic and opto-electronic devices.  


      Some customers specify VGF substrates. Our wafers are qualified with many of the key suppliers of GaAs and InP semiconductor devices. The qualification process, which is lengthy and must be repeated for each customer, can be a barrier to entry for a new material or supplier. Furthermore, certain of our customers now effectively specify that they will only accept VGF-grown or equivalent substrates for their manufacturing processes. The lengthy qualification period benefits us when we are already qualified with a customer, but acts as a barrier to entry for those customers with which we are not qualified. 

      Our low-cost manufacturing is an advantage. In 1998, we began moving portions of our substrate manufacturing operations to China, to benefit from a combination of lower costs for facilities, labor and materials than we encounter in the United States. That move continued and as of the end of 2003, most of our substrate manufacturing activities occur in China. We have also made some strategic investments in raw materials producers, including one that produces gallium, that provide us with a secured and low cost source of important materials and enables us to market surplus production to others. We believe this provides us with a cost advantage vis-à-vis our competitors, which do not enjoy similar arrangements. 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Technology 

      Our core technologies include our proprietary VGF technique used to produce high quality crystals that are processed into compound substrates, and our gallium extraction technology which allows us to extract raw gallium from aluminum ore. 

(VGF FURNACE DIAGRAM) 

      Our VGF technique is designed to control the crystal-growth process with minimal temperature variation and is the technique we use to produce our GaAs, InP and Ge substrates. Unlike traditional techniques, our VGF technique places the hot compound melt above the cool crystal, thereby reducing the turbulence at the interface of the melt and the solid crystal, compared with the LEC technique in which the melt and crystal are inverted. The temperature gradient between the melt and the crystal in the VGF technique is significantly lower than in traditional techniques. These aspects of the VGF technique enable us to grow crystals that have a relatively low defect density and high uniformity. The crystal and the resulting substrate are mechanically strong, resulting in lower breakage rates during a customer’s manufacturing process. Since the temperature gradient is controlled electronically rather than by physical movement, the sensitive crystal is not disturbed as it may be during some competitors’ VGF-like growth processes. In addition, the melt and growing crystal are contained in a closed chamber, which isolates the crystal from the outside environment to reduce potential contamination. This substrate isolation allows for more precise control of the gallium-to-arsenic ratio, resulting in better consistency and uniformity of the crystals. 

      Our VGF technique offers several benefits when compared to traditional crystal growing technologies. The Liquid Encapsulated Czochralski, or LEC, technique is the traditional method for producing semi-insulating GaAs substrates for electronic applications. During the LEC process, the crystal is grown by dipping a seed crystal through molten boric oxide into a melt and slowly pulling the seed up into the cool zone above the boric oxide where the crystal hardens. Unlike the VGF technique, the LEC technique is designed so that the hotter GaAs melt is located beneath the cooler crystal, resulting in greater turbulence in the melt, and at a temperature gradient that is significantly higher than the VGF technique. The turbulence and high temperature cause LEC-grown crystals to have a higher dislocation density than VGF-grown crystals, resulting in a higher rate of breakage during the device manufacturing process. As an open process, the LEC technique also results in greater propensity for contamination and difficulty controlling the ratio of gallium to 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

arsenic. It requires large, complex electro-mechanical systems that are expensive and require highly skilled personnel to operate. Strategy Analytics, a third-party market research firm, estimated that approximately 60 percent of the GaAs substrates sold in 2002 by all competitors to customers that manufacture electronic devices were manufactured using VGF or similar techniques. They projected that VGF’s share would increase to approximately 70 percent by 2007. 
      Our VGF technique also offers advantages over the Horizontal-Bridgeman, or HB, technique, for producing semi-conducting GaAs substrates for opto-electronic applications. The HB technique holds the GaAs melt in a semi-cylindrical container, causing crystals grown using the HB method to have a semi-circular, or D-shaped, cross-section. Accordingly, more crystal material is discarded when the D-shaped substrate is subsequently trimmed to a round shape. In addition, crystals grown using the HB technique have a higher defect density than VGF-grown crystals. The HB technique cannot be used cost-effectively to produce substrates greater than three inches in diameter. The HB technique houses the GaAs melt in a quartz container during the growth process, which can contaminate the GaAs melt with silicon impurities, making it unsuitable for producing semi-insulating GaAs substrates. 

      The following table provides a comparison of these three techniques: LEC remains about 40% of the semi-insulating market and HB is still present in the semi-conducting market. 

              
  VGF  HB  LEC 
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Substrate applications    Electronic and opto-electronic    Opto-electronic    Electronic  
Largest wafer size available    6”    3”    6”  
Stress/defect levels    Very Low    Low    High  
Crystal purity    Good    Poor    Good  
Applicability to multiple materials    GaAs, InP, Ge    GaAs    GaAs, InP, GaP  
Equipment and labor cost    Very Low    Low    High  
Amount of waste material    Very Low    High    Low  
Equipment flexibility    Versatile    Limited    Limited  
Equipment downtime    Minimal    Moderate    High  
Number of competitors    Several    Declining    Declining  

Products 

      We design, develop, manufacture and distribute high-performance semiconductor substrates. The table below sets forth our products and selected applications: 

          
   
Product  Applications 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
     
Substrates   Electronic   Opto-electronic 
GaAs    • Cellular phones    • LEDs  
    • Direct broadcast television    • Lasers  
    • High-performance transistors    • Optical couplers  
    • Satellite communications      
  
InP    • Fiber optic communications    • Lasers  
    • Satellite communications      
    • High-performance transistors      
    • Automotive collision avoidance radars      
  
Ge    • Satellite solar cells      

      Substrates. We currently sell compound substrates manufactured from GaAs and InP, as well as single-element substrates manufactured from Ge. We supply GaAs substrates in two-, three-, four-, five- and 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

six-inch diameters. We manufacture InP substrates in two-, three- and four-inch diameters and Ge substrates in four-inch diameters. 
      Materials. We sell 99.99% pure gallium. We began selling Ga in 2001, primarily through our majority owned subsidiary, Beijing Ji Ya Semiconductor Material Company, Ltd. We sell primarily to re-processors who improve the purity of the gallium. In 2003 sales of gallium were approximately $3.3 million. 

Customers 

      We sell our compound semiconductor substrates and materials worldwide. Our customers include: 

          
Advanced Epitaxy Technology    Kingmax    Sumika  
Agilent Technologies    Kopin    Triquent Semiconductor  
Coherent Tutcore    Motorola    Uni Light Technology  
EMCORE    Osram    Visual Photonics Epitaxy  
Honeywell    Opto-Power    United Epitaxy Company  
IQE, Inc.    Procomp Informatics    Xiamen Shanan Electronics  
Isotech    Recapture Metals      

      Historically, we have sold a significant portion of our products in any particular period to a limited number of customers. No customer represented greater than 10% of product revenues for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. The company’s top five customers represented 28.9% of product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003, 31.4% of product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2002, and 31.1% of product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2001. We expect that sales to certain customers will continue to comprise a significant portion of our revenue in the future. 

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies 

      We believe that our results are partially due to our manufacturing efficiency and high product yields and we continually emphasize quality and process control throughout our manufacturing operations. We perform our substrate manufacturing operations at our facilities in Beijing, China and Fremont, California. As part of our plan to reduce substrate manufacturing costs, we shifted the vast majority of our manufacturing processes to our facilities in China, where costs are generally lower, by the end of 2003. We currently perform research and development and limited manufacturing in our Fremont, California facilities. We believe that our capital investment and subsequent operating costs are lower for our manufacturing facilities in China relative to the U.S. Many of our manufacturing operations are fully automated and computer monitored or controlled, enhancing reliability and yield. We use proprietary equipment in our substrate manufacturing operations to protect our intellectual property and control the timing and pace of capacity additions. All of our manufacturing facilities are ISO 9001 or 9002 certified. 

      Although we purchase supply parts, components and raw materials from several domestic and international suppliers, we depend on a single or limited number of suppliers for certain critical materials used in the production of our substrates, such as quartz tubing, polishing solutions, and paralytic boron nitride. We generally purchase these materials through standard purchase orders and not pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Although we seek to maintain sufficient inventory levels of certain materials to guard against interruptions in supply and to meet our near term needs, and have to date been able to obtain sufficient supplies of materials in a timely manner, there may be shortages of certain key materials, such as gallium. Accordingly, to help ensure continued supply of materials, we formed joint ventures with and made investments in some suppliers of key raw materials required to manufacture our products, including gallium. We believe that these joint ventures and investments will be advantageous in procuring materials to support our growth. In addition, excess capacity is marketed to others. 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Sales and Marketing 

      We advertise in trade publications, distribute promotional materials, conduct marketing and sales programs, and participate in industry trade shows and conferences in order to raise market awareness of our products. We sell our substrate products through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Japan and through independent sales representatives in France, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Our direct sales force consists of sales engineers who are knowledgeable in the manufacture and use of compound and single-element substrates. Our sales engineers work with customers during all stages of the substrate manufacturing process, from developing the precise composition of the substrate through manufacturing and processing the substrate to the customer’s exact specifications. We believe that maintaining a close relationship with customers and providing them with ongoing technical support improves customer satisfaction and will provide us with a competitive advantage in selling other substrates to our customers. The substrate division launched a program in late 2000 with selected customers in which we guaranteed that certain volumes of six-inch GaAs and other substrates would be delivered on specific dates and the customer made a prepayment for part of the value of its order. Several major customers participate in this program. At December 31, 2003, the unearned pre-payments we retained under this program equaled $1.0 million. We do not expect to continue this program after the pre-payments currently in hand are utilized by customers. 

      International Sales. International sales are an important part of our business. In the year ended December 31, 2003, sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 65.9% of our revenue, as compared with 43.9% in 2002 and with 47.5% in 2001. The primary markets for sales of our products outside of the United States include countries in Asia and Western Europe. Our ability to sustain and increase our international sales involves significant risks, including volatile political, social and economic instabilities abroad, possible fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and changes in tariffs, import restrictions or other trade barriers. 

Research and Development 

      To maintain and improve our competitive position, we focus our research and development efforts on designing new proprietary processes and products, improving the performance of existing products and reducing manufacturing costs. We have assembled a multi-disciplinary team of highly skilled scientists, engineers and technicians to meet our research and development objectives. 

      Our current substrate research and development activities focus on continued development and enhancement of GaAs, InP and Ge substrates, including improved yield, enhanced surface characteristics and uniformity, greater substrate strength and increased crystal length. During 2003 we experienced surface quality problems with our GaAs substrates for some customers. 

      Research and development expenses were $1.3 million in 2003, compared with $2.3 million in 2002, and $3.9 million in 2001. We believe that our current rate of expenditure can enable us to achieve our research and development goals. 

Competition 

      The semiconductor substrate industry is characterized by rapid technological change and price erosion, as well as intense foreign and domestic competition. We believe we currently have a leading position in the existing markets for compound semiconductor substrates primarily as a result of our expertise in VGF technology. However, we believe we face actual and potential competition from a number of established domestic and international companies who have advantages not available to us. 

      We believe that the primary competitive factors in the markets in which our substrate products compete are: 

   
  •  quality;  
  
  •  price;  
  
  •  performance;  


7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

   
  •  meeting customer specifications; and  
  
  •  customer support and satisfaction.  


      Our ability to compete in target markets also depends on factors such as: 

   
  •  the timing and success of the development and introduction of new products and product features by us and our competitors;  
  
  •  the availability of adequate sources of raw materials; and  
  
  •  protection of our products by effective use of intellectual property laws and general economic conditions.  


      Our primary competition in the market for compound semiconductor substrates includes Freiberger, Japan Energy and Sumitomo Electric. In addition, we also face competition from compound semiconductor device manufacturers that produce substrates for their own internal use, including Hitachi, and from companies such as IBM that are actively developing alternative compound semiconductor materials. 

Protection of our Intellectual Property 

      Our success and the competitive position of our VGF technique depend on our ability to maintain trade secrets and other intellectual property protections. We rely on a combination of patents, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary technology. We believe that, due to the rapid pace of technological innovation in the markets for our products, our ability to establish and maintain a position of technology leadership depends as much on the skills of our development personnel as upon the legal protections afforded our existing technologies. To protect our trade secrets, we take certain measures to ensure their secrecy, such as executing non-disclosure agreements with our employees, customers and suppliers. However, reliance on trade secrets is only an effective business practice insofar as trade secrets remain undisclosed and a proprietary product or process is not reverse engineered or independently developed. 

      To date, we have been issued 4 U.S. patents and have 4 U.S. patent applications pending, which relate to our VGF products and processes. We have 9 patent applications pending (in PCT/national stage process) in Europe, Canada, China, Japan and South Korea which are based on our U.S. patents that relate to our VGF processes. We have 1 issued foreign patent. 

Environmental Regulations 

      We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws, rules and regulations govern the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals during manufacturing, research and development and sales demonstrations. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be subject to substantial liability for clean-up efforts, personal injury and fines or suspension or cessation of our operations. We cooperated with the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or Cal-OSHA, in an investigation primarily regarding impermissible levels of potentially hazardous materials in certain areas of our manufacturing facility in Fremont, California. In May 2000, Cal-OSHA levied a fine against us in the amount of $313,655 for alleged health and safety violations. In March 2001, we settled this claim in the amount of $200,415, and have put in place engineering, administrative and personnel protective equipment programs to address these issues. On May 1, 2001, the Santa Clara Center for Occupational Safety and Health (SCCOSH) filed a complaint for injunctive relief and civil penalties against us alleging violations of California Business Professions Code 17200 et seq., and Health and Safety Code section 25249 et seq. as a result of our use of arsenic and inorganic arsenic compounds in our workplace. We reached a settlement with SCCOSH during 2002. 

Employees 

      As of December 31, 2003, we had 972 employees, of whom 818 were principally engaged in manufacturing, 141 in sales and administration, and 13 in research and development. Of these employees, 119 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

are located in the U.S., 852 in China and 1 in Japan. As a result of shifting more of our substrate manufacturing to China, we implemented headcount reductions in our Fremont, California facilities, and expect further reductions as our shift of manufacturing activities to China is completed. Our employees are not represented by a union and we have never experienced a work stoppage. Although morale has been affected by our workforce reductions, we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 