ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

OUR COMPANY

     Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics," "the
Company," "us," "we," or "our") is the leading supplier of high-performance
polishing slurries used in the manufacture of the most advanced integrated
circuit ("IC") devices within a process called chemical mechanical planarization
("CMP"). CMP is a polishing process used by IC device manufacturers to planarize
or flatten many of the multiple layers of material that are built upon silicon
wafers, and it is a necessary step in the production of advanced ICs.
Planarization is a polishing process that levels, smooths and removes excess
material from the surfaces of these layers. CMP slurries are liquid formulations
that facilitate and enhance this polishing process and generally contain
engineered abrasives and proprietary chemicals. CMP enables IC device
manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with fewer
defects. We believe CMP will become increasingly important in the future as
manufacturers seek to shrink the size of these devices and to improve their
performance. A majority of our CMP slurries are used to polish insulating layers
and the tungsten plugs that go through the insulating layers and connect the
multiple wiring layers of IC devices. We also have developed specialized
slurries used to polish copper, a metal used in wiring layers of IC device
fabrication, and our products for this application have been well received. In
addition, we have developed CMP slurries for polishing certain components in
hard disk drives, specifically rigid disk substrates and magnetic heads, and we
have become a strong participant in this area. We are continuing to develop
slurries for new applications such as noble metals. In addition, we are
developing our own polishing pads for use in the CMP process. Like slurries,
polishing pads are important consumables used in the CMP process. To broaden our
portfolio of pad products, we recently entered into a distribution agreement
with a third party to sell polishing pads while pursuing additional elements of
our pad strategy.

     Prior to our initial public offering on April 4, 2000, we operated as a
division of Cabot Corporation ("Cabot Corporation"), a global chemical
manufacturing company based in Boston, Massachusetts. Following our initial
public offering, Cabot Corporation owned approximately 80.5 percent of Cabot
Microelectronics. On September 29, 2000, Cabot Corporation effected the spin-off
of Cabot Microelectronics by distributing 0.280473721 shares of our common stock
as a dividend on each outstanding share of Cabot Corporation common stock
outstanding on September 13, 2000, or an aggregate of 18,989,744 shares of our
common stock.

  IC DEVICE MANUFACTURING

     Advanced IC devices are composed of millions of transistors and other
electronic components connected by miles of wiring. The wiring, today composed
primarily of aluminum and tungsten but also increasingly with copper in advanced
applications, carries electric signals through the multiple layers of the IC
device. Insulating material is used throughout the IC device to isolate the
electronic components and the wiring, thereby preventing short circuiting and
improving the efficiency of electric signal travel within the device. To enhance
performance, IC device manufacturers have progressively increased the number, or
density, of transistors and other electronic components in each IC device. As a
result, the number of wires and the number of layers have also increased.

     The multi-step manufacturing process for IC devices typically begins with a
circular wafer of pure silicon. A large number of identical IC devices are
manufactured on each wafer at the same time, and at the end of the process, the
wafer is cut into the individual devices. The first step in the manufacturing
process is to build transistors and other electronic components on the silicon
wafer. These components are then wired together in a particular sequence to
produce a functional IC device with the desired characteristics. Once the
transistors and other electronic components are in place on the silicon wafer,
they are usually covered with a layer of insulating material, most often silicon
dioxide.

     CMP is used to planarize the insulating layers of an IC device and prepare
them for a process known as metallization. During metallization, wiring is added
to the surface of the insulating layer through a series of steps involving:
depositing metal onto the surface of the layer; projecting an image of the
desired wiring

                                        2
<PAGE>

pattern on the layer using a process known as photolithography; and removing the
excess deposited metal from the surface of the insulating layer using a process
known as etching, which leaves behind the desired wiring pattern.

     When the wiring is finished, another layer of insulating material is added
and planarized using CMP. This process of alternating insulating and wiring
layers is repeated until the desired wiring within the IC device is completed.
The electronic components and wiring layers are connected by conductive plugs
that are formed by making holes in the insulating layers and filling those holes
with metal, usually tungsten. After these holes have been filled with tungsten,
CMP is used to remove all the excess tungsten above the surface of the
insulating layer so that the top of the plug is level with the surface of the
insulating layer before the next wiring layer is built. Due to the extremely
small dimensions involved, manufacturing IC devices requires precision
processing in ultra-clean, controlled environments.

     The semiconductor industry follows generally accepted design rules that
describe current and projected feature size and spacing of electronic components
and wiring in IC devices. The feature size and spacing in these design rules
have been progressively decreasing to accommodate the demand for increased
circuit density and transistor miniaturization. As the density of IC devices
increases, the amount of wiring needed to connect the transistors and other
electronic components to each other also increases. As IC devices become
smaller, this increase in wiring requires tighter and more precise spacing of
the wiring, but also has led to an increase in the layers of IC devices.

     The International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors ("ITRS") is a set
of documents sponsored by the Semiconductor Industry Association along with
other worldwide associations. Those documents provide guidance and targets for
suppliers. According to the 2001 edition of the ITRS, the trends toward
increased density and miniaturization of IC devices are expected to continue.
The ITRS shows that today's leading edge logic microprocessors are scaled to a
 1/2 pitch of 130 nanometer and utilize a maximum of 8 levels of metal
interconnect wiring. By 2004, those devices are projected to have a 1/2 pitch of
90 nanometer and a maximum of 9 levels of metal wiring. Similarly, leading edge
memory DRAM chips are projected to move to 4 levels of metal wiring. CMP is
currently used to polish the insulating layers, tungsten plugs, and copper
wiring in IC devices in separate steps. CMP is also utilized in the formation of
the transistors in the processes that precede the formation of interconnects and
that use is also increasing. We believe that the use of CMP in the manufacture
of IC devices will continue to increase as the feature size and spacing of these
devices decreases and the number of layers in the device increases.

  CHEMICAL MECHANICAL PLANARIZATION

     The CMP process involves both chemical reactions and mechanical abrasion to
planarize the insulating and conductive layers of an IC device that are built
upon a silicon wafer. The wafer is typically held on a rotating carrier, which
is spun at high speeds and pressed against a rotating polishing table. The
portion of the table that comes in contact with the wafer is covered by a
textured polishing pad. A CMP slurry is continuously applied to the polishing
pad to facilitate and enhance the polishing process. CMP slurries are liquid
compounds composed of high-purity deionized water, proprietary chemical
additives and engineered abrasives that chemically and mechanically interact
with the surface material of the IC device at an atomic level.

  BENEFITS OF CMP

     CMP provides IC device manufacturers with a number of advantages. CMP
enables IC device manufacturers to produce smaller IC devices with greater
density, both of which improve the performance and capabilities of the device.
As IC devices shrink and become more dense, they require smaller feature sizes
and tighter spacing among the device wiring. If the surface is not level, the
smaller feature size and tighter spacing make it more difficult for the
photolithography equipment to focus accurately and create the desired wiring
pattern. In addition, because today's smaller, denser IC devices have more
layers than previous devices, any unevenness of a layer at or near the bottom of
an IC device will be magnified in the additional layers that are added to the
device. Defects caused by problems in the photolithography process or unevenness
in the layers

                                        3
<PAGE>

can lead to short circuits, reduced performance and at worst, failure of the IC
device. By using CMP, IC device manufacturers can eliminate or minimize these
problems.

     By enabling IC device manufacturers to make smaller IC devices, CMP allows
them to increase their throughput, or the number of IC devices they can
manufacture in a given time period. CMP also helps reduce the number of
defective or substandard IC devices produced, which increases the device yield.
Improvements in throughput and yield reduce an IC device manufacturer's unit
production costs. Manufacturers can achieve further improvements in throughput
and yield as new improvements to the CMP process helps to reduce defect rates
and decrease the amount of time required for the polishing process.

  CMP SLURRIES

     The characteristics that are important to making an effective CMP slurry
include: high polishing rates, which increase productivity and throughput; high
selectivity, which means the ability to enhance the polishing of specific
materials while inhibiting the polishing of other materials; uniformity of
polishing, which means that different surface materials can be polished to the
same degree at the same time, thereby eliminating the problems of dishing and
erosion; low levels of chemical and physical impurities, which can adversely
affect IC device performance by leaving residues on the polished surface; and
colloidal stability, meaning that the abrasive particles within the slurry do
not settle, which is an important factor in accomplishing uniform polishing with
minimum defects.

     These qualities affect and enhance the performance of IC devices, and most
of them have the ability to also positively impact the cost of ownership of the
CMP process for IC device manufacturers. Cost of ownership is a calculation by
which IC device manufacturers evaluate the benefits and costs of each production
step by analyzing the impact of that step on throughput and yield, compared with
the costs of the production inputs of that step.

     Prior to introducing a new or different CMP slurry into its manufacturing
process, an IC device manufacturer generally requires the slurry to be qualified
at each of its plants through a series of tests and evaluations intended to
ensure that the slurry will function properly in the manufacturing process, as
well as to optimize the slurry's application. These tests may require changes to
the CMP process, the CMP slurry and/or the CMP polishing pad. While this
qualification process varies depending on numerous factors, it is not unusual
for it to be very expensive and to take six months or more to complete. IC
device manufacturers usually take the cost, time delay and impact on production
into account when they consider implementing or switching to a new CMP slurry.

INDUSTRY TRENDS

     The semiconductor industry has experienced rapid growth over the past
decade, but it has also been highly cyclical. Since January 2001, companies in
this industry have been challenged by one of the most significant downturns in
its history, as our customers' inventory levels of IC devices were higher than
in the past, and end-market demand for products using IC devices slowed as a
result of the overall weakness in the global economy. While customer inventory
levels appeared to stabilize to some extent in fiscal 2002, the trends of
softness in the global economy and low consumer demand for electronic devices
continued during the fiscal year and appear to be ongoing.

     Despite the current weakness in the semiconductor industry, we expect the
CMP slurry market to grow in the future, driven in large part by the significant
growth and technological advances the semiconductor industry has experienced
over the past decade. IC devices are critical components in an increasingly wide
variety of products and applications, including computers, data processing,
communications, telecommunications, the Internet, automobiles and consumer and
industrial electronics.

                                        4
<PAGE>

     This growth, along with increasing demand for smaller, higher performance
and more complex IC devices, pressure on IC device manufacturers to reduce their
costs, and the growth of new leading-edge technologies, such as copper
interconnect, that require CMP, has led to more widespread use of CMP and
consumption of CMP slurries and polishing pads. We anticipate the worldwide
market for CMP slurries used by IC device manufacturers to grow significantly in
the future as a result of expected increases in the number of IC devices
produced, the percentage of IC devices produced using CMP and the number of CMP
polishing steps used to produce each device. In addition, we believe that IC
manufacturers have continued to increase their use of CMP because the CMP
process represents only a small percentage of the total production cost of an IC
device, and is important to the continued improvement of IC device performance
and the reduction of costs of IC device manufacturing.

OTHER APPLICATIONS OF CMP IN THE IC DEVICE MANUFACTURING PROCESS

     We have developed and commenced sampling of CMP slurries for use in
connection with an IC device manufacturing process known as direct shallow
trench isolation. Direct shallow trench isolation is a relatively new method of
isolating the electronic components built on silicon wafers of an IC device to
prevent short circuits and other electrical interference. Direct shallow trench
isolation uses CMP before the first insulating layer is put down on the wafer.
Isolation methods used prior to direct shallow trench isolation did not use CMP.
By using CMP in conjunction with direct shallow trench isolation, IC device
manufacturers are expected to be able to achieve greater miniaturization and
density of their IC devices.

     We also are developing CMP slurries for polishing noble metals. Noble
metals include iridium, ruthenium, and platinum. These materials are being
evaluated for use in advanced memory IC devices where their properties enable
the continued miniaturization of individual memory cells called capacitors. CMP
is expected to be used to planarize thin layers of these materials.

STRATEGY

     We intend to pursue the following strategies:

  REMAIN THE TECHNOLOGY LEADER IN CMP SLURRIES

     We believe that technology is vital to success in the CMP slurry market and
we plan to continue to devote significant resources to research and development.
We need to keep pace with the rapid technological advances in the semiconductor
industry so we can continue to deliver products that meet our customers'
evolving needs. We intend to: use our advanced research and development,
polishing and metrology capabilities to advance our understanding of our
customers' technology, processes, and performance requirements for qualified
products; improve the chemical and mechanical qualities of our CMP products;
and, demonstrate and deliver advanced CMP solutions to the semiconductor
industry.

  BUILD AND MAINTAIN CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS

     We believe that building close relationships with our customers is another
cornerstone to long-term success in our business. We work closely with our
customers to identify and develop new and better CMP slurries, to integrate our
slurries into their manufacturing processes and to assist them with supply,
warehousing, packaging and inventory management. We have devoted significant
resources to enhancing our close customer relationships, and we are committed to
continuing this effort.

  EXPAND GLOBALLY

     We believe that having production facilities, personnel and other resources
in strategic locations around the world is important to the success of our
business, particularly in light of increased IC device manufacturing in Asia.
Accordingly, we have established a global presence with production facilities in
Barry, Wales and Geino, Japan. We also have assembled a team of business and
account managers and independent distributors strategically located in Europe,
Taiwan, Singapore, Japan and Korea, and technical support and sales personnel
throughout the United States, Europe and Asia. We intend to expand our
production capacity,
                                        5
<PAGE>

technical and sales support in many of the locations around the world where IC
device production is concentrated.

  ATTRACT AND RETAIN WORLD-CLASS PERSONNEL

     We have assembled a highly skilled and dedicated workforce that includes a
wide range of scientists and applications specialists, many of whom have
significant experience in the semiconductor industry. We plan to continue to
attract and retain experienced personnel who are committed to providing
high-performance products and strong customer and applications support.

  MAINTAIN TOP QUALITY PRODUCTS AND SUPPLY

     Our customers demand consistent high-quality products and a reliable supply
source. We intend to advance our strict quality controls on a continual basis in
order to improve the uniformity and consistency of performance of our CMP
products. The capacity and the location of our production facilities in the
United States, Europe and Asia allow us to provide a reliable supply chain to
meet our customers' CMP slurry requirements in a consistent, timely manner.

  EXPAND INTO NEW APPLICATIONS AND PRODUCTS

     We intend to leverage our CMP experience and technology to explore new
applications and products. We have continued to develop and have increased sales
of slurries for polishing copper used in the wiring layers of some IC devices
and for polishing the magnetic heads and coating on hard disks in hard disk
drives. We also are developing polishing products for other applications such as
direct shallow trench isolation and noble metals. Additionally, we are using our
knowledge of CMP materials to expand into CMP polishing pads so that we can
provide our customers with a broader range of solutions for use in the CMP
process.

PRODUCTS

  CMP SLURRIES FOR IC DEVICES

     We produce CMP slurries of various formulations for polishing a wide
variety of materials. In addition to our existing tungsten and oxide slurries,
we have developed new, improved generations of each of our slurries as well as
new slurries to keep pace with our customers' evolving needs. Our new
generations of tungsten and oxide slurries, which are the most common use of CMP
in IC device manufacturing, are designed to reduce both defectivity in IC
devices and the required polishing time.

     We also manufacture slurry products for polishing copper used in the wiring
layers of IC devices and are working on next generation copper applications.
These products include different slurries for polishing the primary copper film,
as well as the thin barrier metal layer used in copper wiring. We continue to
work closely with our customers to develop advanced slurries to meet their
evolving technological needs.

  CMP SLURRIES FOR THE DATA STORAGE INDUSTRY

     We produce CMP slurries for polishing the magnetic heads and the coating on
hard disks in hard disk drives by leveraging our core slurry technology and
manufacturing capacity, as well as by hiring industry experts who understand the
needs of the data storage industry. We believe CMP significantly improves the
surface finish of these coatings, resulting in greater storage capacity of the
substrates, and also improves the production efficiency of manufacturers of hard
disk drives by helping them increase their throughput and yield. We also
established a dedicated research and development team and an applications
support team who employ a process solution approach similar to what we use for
our other slurry products. We have experienced promising results in these areas,
and believe that they offer solid potential. Moreover, we believe that our
slurry products offer improved performance compared with other materials
currently used in the industry.

                                        6
<PAGE>

  POLISHING PADS

     CMP polishing pads are consumable materials used in the CMP process that
work in conjunction with CMP slurries to facilitate the polishing process. We
believe the CMP polishing pad market is currently led by one principal supplier,
Rodel. Through discussions with our customers, as well as our own examination of
the CMP polishing pad market, we have determined that a demand exists for higher
quality, more reliable and consistent polishing pads. Based on this, we have
identified an opportunity to provide our customers with technological and
quality improvements through the ability to jointly market our CMP slurries and
polishing pads to them. At the end of fiscal 2002, we broadened our pad strategy
by entering a distribution agreement with a third party to sell polishing pads.
We also intend to continue to develop our proprietary pads while pursuing
additional elements of our pad strategy.

CUSTOMERS, SALES AND MARKETING

     Our marketing begins with development teams who work closely with our
customers, using our research and development facilities to design CMP slurry
products tailored to their precise needs. Next, our applications teams work with
customers to integrate our slurry products into their manufacturing processes.
Finally, our logistics and sales personnel work to provide reliable supply,
warehousing, packaging and inventory management to our customers. Through our
interactive approach, we are able to build close relationships with our
customers in a variety of areas.

     In the past, we also have marketed our products through independent
distributors in certain regions of the world. In fiscal 2002, we altered this
approach by modifying our agreement with one of our independent distributors,
Metron Technology. This modification provides that as of June 2003, we will sell
directly to our customers in Europe, Singapore and Malaysia, while maintaining
Metron as our distributor in Israel. In addition, the IC device manufacturing
industry in Asia has grown significantly over the last five years. As a result,
we have increased our focus in Asia over the last few years by increasing the
number of account managers and technical and customer support personnel present
in this region. By building this regional infrastructure, we have demonstrated a
commitment to the Asian marketplace.

     In fiscal year 2002, our five largest customers, of which two are
distributors, accounted for approximately 63% of our revenue, with Marketech,
who is one of the distributors, and Intel accounting for approximately 24% and
16% of our revenue, respectively. In fiscal year 2001, our five largest
customers accounted for approximately 55% of our revenue, with Marketech and
Intel accounting for approximately 21% and 14% of our revenue, respectively.

CABOT CORPORATION AS OUR MAJOR SUPPLIER OF RAW MATERIALS

     The base ingredients for most of our CMP slurries are fumed metal oxides,
primarily fumed silica, which is an ultra-fine, high purity silica produced by a
flame process, and, to a lesser extent, fumed alumina. We currently purchase
fumed silica under a fumed metal oxide agreement with Cabot Corporation, which
became effective at the time of our initial public offering in April, 2000 and
purchased fumed alumina until December, 2001 only under this agreement. In order
to meet our growing needs for fumed alumina, in December, 2001 we entered into a
fumed alumina supply agreement with Cabot Corporation, and amended certain terms
related to fumed alumina under the fumed metal oxide agreement.

  FUMED METAL OXIDE AGREEMENT

     Under the fumed metal oxide supply agreement Cabot Corporation continues to
be our primary supplier, subject to certain terms and conditions, of certain
fumed metal oxides for our slurry products produced as of the date of our
initial public offering with respect to fumed silica. For our technologies since
that time, we have the flexibility to purchase from Cabot Corporation or other
parties. Approximately 75% of the fumed metal oxides that we currently purchase
from Cabot Corporation are manufactured at its facility in Tuscola, Illinois.

                                        7
<PAGE>

     This agreement provides for a fixed annual increase in the price of fumed
silica of approximately 2% of the initial price and additional increases if
Cabot Corporation's raw material costs increase. Cabot Corporation is required
to supply us with fumed silica in volumes specified by us, up to a limit, from
each of its Tuscola, Illinois and Barry, Wales facilities, up to a specific
limit from each facility. We are required to provide Cabot Corporation with
quarterly, six-month, annual and 18-month forecasts of our expected fumed silica
purchases and Cabot Corporation's obligation to provide us with fumed silica to
specified percentages in excess of those forecasted volumes is limited. We are
limited in the amount we can forecast for any month to an amount no greater than
120% of the forecasted amount for the previous month. We are obligated to
purchase at least 90% of the six-month volume forecast and to pay specified
amounts to Cabot Corporation if we purchase less than that amount. We are also
required to pay all reasonable costs incurred by Cabot Corporation to provide
quality control testing at levels greater than Cabot Corporation provides to its
other customers and are generally prohibited from reselling any fumed silica
purchased from Cabot Corporation.

     Under the agreement and the amendment entered into in December, 2001, Cabot
Corporation also supplies us with fumed alumina from its Tuscola, Illinois
facility on terms generally similar to those described above, except certain of
the forecast requirements do not apply to fumed alumina. The price is fixed and
unchanged for a base level of production, and we agreed to pay a higher
incentive price for volumes above that level. The terms related to fumed alumina
now provide us with the first right, subject to certain terms and conditions, to
all fumed alumina produced at the facility. The agreement prohibits Cabot
Corporation from selling fumed metal oxides to third parties for use in CMP
applications. This agreement has an initial term that expires in June 2005.
Thereafter, the agreement may be terminated by either party on June 30 or
December 31 in any year with at least 18 months prior written notice.

  FUMED ALUMINA SUPPLY AGREEMENT

     Under the fumed alumina supply agreement, Cabot Corporation expanded its
capacity for the manufacture of fumed alumina, to which we have first right to
all capacity from the expansion and, under the amended fumed metal oxide
agreement, we now have first right, subject to certain terms and conditions, to
the capacity from that fumed alumina facility. The expansion is dedicated to our
fumed alumina requirements, subject to certain terms and conditions, and we have
a first right on all production and capacity from the expansion. The agreement
provides that the price Cabot Corporation charges us for fumed alumina is based
on all of its fixed and variable costs for producing the fumed alumina, plus its
capital costs for expanding its capacity, plus an agreed upon rate of return on
investment, plus incentive payments if Cabot Corporation produces more than a
certain amount of fumed alumina that meets our specifications per year.
Quarterly capital lease payments of approximately $0.3 million with respect to
capital costs will be made over the ten year period of the agreement. Based upon
these financial terms and those of the amendment to the fumed metal oxide
agreement, our average cost per pound for fumed alumina are and will be higher
in the future than paid under the original fumed metal oxide agreement. We
expect this amount to increase in future years as we anticipate continued strong
sales growth in alumina-based slurry products.

     The agreement provides that Cabot Corporation only has to produce fumed
alumina that meets our specifications up to a certain amount and percentage of
overall fumed alumina they produce. We pay for fumed alumina that is produced
subject to our orders, whether conforming or nonconforming to our
specifications. We must give Cabot Corporation the first right to purchase from
us any nonconforming fumed alumina that we wish to resell at an agreed upon
price. Under this agreement, up to certain quantities and for products produced
on the effective date of the agreement, Cabot Corporation is the exclusive
supplier of fumed alumina for these products, subject to certain terms and
conditions. For amounts over these quantities, and for technologies since that
time, we have the flexibility to also purchase from other parties; the terms
related to these matters replace those that existed under the fumed metal oxide
agreement with respect to fumed alumina. The agreement prohibits Cabot
Corporation from selling fumed alumina to third parties, or engaging itself in
its use in CMP applications. The agreement has an initial five year term and we
may renew the agreement for an additional five years to 2011. Under certain
limited circumstances, we can permit Cabot Corporation to use the expansion to
produce fumed alumina for itself, with Cabot Corporation paying us an agreed
upon price for such production.

                                        8
<PAGE>

     Under both agreements, Cabot Corporation warrants that its products will
meet our agreed upon product specifications. We have no right to any
consequential, special or incidental damages for breach of that warranty or any
other provision of the agreement. Under the fumed metal oxide agreement, Cabot
Corporation is obligated to replace noncompliant products with products that
meet the agreed upon specifications. Under the fumed alumina supply agreement,
Cabot Corporation is only obligated to replace noncompliant product with those
that meet the agreed upon specifications when the amount of nonconforming
product exceeds a certain percentage. The agreements also provide that any
change to product specifications for fumed metal oxides must be by mutual
agreement. Any increased costs due to product specification changes are paid by
us. If Cabot Corporation fails to supply us with our requirements for any
reason, including if we require product specification changes that Cabot
Corporation cannot meet, we have the right to purchase products meeting those
specifications from other suppliers.

     Prior to our initial public offering, we did not provide detailed product
specifications to Cabot Corporation and Cabot Corporation permitted us to return
some products even if they met our specifications. Under these agreements, we
provide detailed specifications to Cabot Corporation and have no contractual
right to return products that meet these specifications.

     It may be difficult to secure alternative sources of fumed metal oxides in
the event Cabot Corporation encounters supply or production problems or
terminates, breaches or otherwise fails to perform under these agreements with
us. A significant reduction in the amount of fumed metal oxides supplied by
Cabot Corporation, a problem with the quality of those fumed metal oxides or a
prolonged interruption in their supply by Cabot Corporation could interfere with
our ability to produce our CMP slurries in the quantities and of the quality
required by our customers and in accordance with their delivery schedules.

DISPERSION SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH DAVIES

     At the time of our initial public offering, Cabot Corporation assigned to
us a dispersion services agreement with Davies Imperial Coatings, Inc.
("Davies") pursuant to which Davies produces slurries for us. Under this
agreement, we provide raw materials, primarily fumed silica, to Davies and it
performs dispersion services. The price for these services is set at a
negotiated price, subject to increases. We have agreed to purchase minimum
amounts of services for each year of the agreement. If Davies fails to supply us
with required dispersion services, we have the right to provide these services
for ourselves or purchase them from third parties. The agreement provides for
renegotiation of the price paid for dispersion services on each two-year
anniversary of the agreement in order to reflect changes in Davies'
manufacturing costs. We have also agreed to invest during each year
approximately $0.2 million in capital improvements, capacity expansions and
other expenditures to maintain capacity at the Davies dispersion facility in
Hammond, Indiana. We own most of the dispersion equipment at the Davies
facility. The agreement has an initial term that expires in October, 2004, and
is automatically renewed for one-year periods thereafter, unless either party
gives written notice to the other of its intention to terminate the agreement at
least 90 days prior to the expiration of the term.

DISPERSION SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH CABOT CORPORATION

     We perform dispersion services for Cabot Corporation under a dispersion
services agreement with Cabot Corporation that became effective at the time of
our initial public offering. Dispersions of fumed metal oxides are used in a
variety of applications in addition to CMP and Cabot Corporation develops and
sells fumed metal oxide dispersions for these non-CMP applications. The
agreement has an initial term that expires in June, 2005. Thereafter, the
agreement may be terminated by either party on June 30 or December 31 in any
year with at least 18 months prior written notice.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     We believe our competitive position depends in part on our ability to
develop CMP applications tailored to our customers' needs. In our product
development and dispersion technology laboratory, our skilled technical
personnel conduct kinetic studies of the chemical reactions on the surface of
the wafer. These kinetic data allow us to adjust the composition of our slurries
to avoid, among other things, non-uniform polishing

                                        9
<PAGE>

patterns. Understanding the chemical processes on the surface of the polished
wafer allows us to compose slurries specifically tailored to interact with one
element and to slow or essentially stop planarization as soon as this particular
element has been polished. We have also assembled dedicated development teams
that work closely with customers to identify their specific technology and
manufacturing challenges and to translate these challenges into viable CMP
process solutions. We have dedicated substantial resources to copper technology
in research & development (R&D) and manufacturing to support our customers'
requirements around this very challenging technology and we continue to follow
our business model of continuous product innovation for our tungsten and oxide
product lines.

     We have greatly expanded our existing R&D capabilities this year with the
opening of our new research and development facility in Aurora, Illinois, which
was substantially completed in April 2002. This facility is staffed by a team
that includes experts from the semiconductor industry and scientists from key
disciplines required for the development of high-performance CMP products and
features a state-of-the-art Class 1 clean room and advanced equipment for slurry
and pad product development. We believe this investment will provide us with
leading edge polishing and metrology capabilities to support the most advanced
and challenging customer technology requirements.

     We expensed approximately $33.7 million, $25.8 million and $19.8 million
for research and development in fiscal years 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Investments in research and development equipment are capitalized and
depreciated over their useful life.

COMPETITION

     We are aware of several other manufacturers with significant commercial
sales of CMP slurries for IC devices and many other companies are attempting to
enter this market. During this fiscal year, competition has increased and we
expect it to continue to intensify. In the data storage area we are aware of
only two other manufacturers with significant commercial sales of CMP slurries
for polishing the magnetic heads and the coating on the hard disks in hard disk
drives. We believe the CMP polishing pad market is currently led by one
principal supplier, Rodel. We may also face competition from other companies
that develop CMP products, customers that currently have, or that may develop,
in-house capability to produce their own CMP products, and from significant
changes in technology, such as the development of polishing pads containing
abrasives. We compete primarily on the basis of our product innovation,
performance and level of service. We compete secondarily on the basis of our
broad product offering, global supply assurance and, to a lesser extent, price.
We believe that we presently compete favorably with respect to each of these
factors. The CMP marketplace and CMP products are evolving, however, and there
is no assurance that we will compete successfully in the future.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     Our intellectual property is important to our success and ability to
compete. We currently have 39 U.S. patents and 59 pending U.S. patent
applications covering CMP related products and processes. In most cases we file
counterpart foreign patent applications. Many of these patents are important to
our continued development of new and innovative products for CMP and related
processes. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a
combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as
employee and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Our failure to
obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for
any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

     On February 28, 2002, we settled all pending patent infringement litigation
involving us and one of our major competitors, Rodel Inc., for a one-time
payment to Rodel of $1.0 million, which we recorded as expense in the second
fiscal quarter, and we have no further financial obligation with respect to this
matter. We received from Rodel a fully paid-up, royalty free, worldwide license
in all patents that were the subject of the two suits and their foreign
equivalents. For a further discussion of this litigation, see Item 3 -- Legal
Proceedings of this Form 10-K.

                                        10
<PAGE>

     In addition, we have obtained a patent license from a third party covering
a polishing process used in the manufacturing of non-IC devices. Although we
expect to independently develop a new technology which will eliminate our need
for this licensed technology, there is no assurance that we will be successful
in doing so or that we will be able to continue to license this technology
beyond the eight years currently provided for in our license agreement. This
agreement is effective through 2004 and may be renewed for an additional three
year period.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Our facilities are subject to various environmental laws and regulations,
including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling
and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and occupational safety and health.
We believe that our facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable
environmental laws and regulations. Our facilities have incurred, and will
continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in
complying with these laws and regulations in both the United States and abroad.
However, we currently do not anticipate that the future costs of environmental
compliance will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.

EMPLOYEES

     As of September 30, 2002, we employed a total of 494 individuals, including
42 in sales and marketing, 158 in research and development, 51 in administration
and 243 in operations. None of our employees are covered by collective
bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and in general
consider our relations with our employees to be good.