ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

OUR COMPANY

     Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics," "the
Company," "us," "we," or "our") is the leading supplier of high-performance
polishing slurries used in the manufacture of the most advanced integrated
circuit ("IC") devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called
chemical mechanical planarization ("CMP"). CMP is a polishing process used by IC
device manufacturers to planarize or flatten many of the multiple layers of
material that are built upon silicon wafers in the production of advanced ICs.
Planarization is a polishing process that uses CMP slurries and pads to level,
smooth and remove excess material from the surfaces of these layers, while
leaving minimal residue or defects on the surface. CMP slurries are liquid
solutions generally composed of high-purity deionized water, proprietary
chemical additives and engineered abrasives that chemically and mechanically
interact with the surface material of the IC device at an atomic level.

     CMP enables IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more
complex IC devices with fewer defects. We believe CMP will become increasingly
important in the future as manufacturers continue to shrink the size of these
devices and to improve their performance. Our CMP products are used for a number
of applications, such as polishing insulating oxide layers, the tungsten plugs
that connect the multiple wiring layers of IC devices through these insulating
layers, and copper wiring. In addition, we have developed and sell CMP slurries
for polishing certain components in hard disk drives, specifically rigid disk
substrates and magnetic heads, and we believe we are one of the leading
suppliers in this area. We are continuing to develop new and improved products
for these applications as well as improving existing products on an ongoing
basis. In addition, we are developing polishing pads for use in the CMP process.

     Prior to our initial public offering in April 2000, we operated as a
division of Cabot Corporation ("Cabot Corporation"). In September 2000 we became
a wholly independent entity upon Cabot Corporation's spin-off of its ownership
in us that remained after the initial public offering.

  IC DEVICE MANUFACTURING

     Advanced IC devices are composed of millions of transistors and other
electronic components connected by miles of wiring. The wiring, composed
primarily of either aluminum or copper, carries electric signals through the
multiple layers of the IC device. Insulating material is used throughout the IC
device to isolate the electronic components and the wiring, thereby preventing
short circuiting and improving the efficiency of the travel of the electric
signal within the device. To enhance performance, IC device manufacturers have
progressively increased the number and density of transistors and other
electronic components in each IC device. As a result, the number of wires and
the number of layers have also increased. We expect this trend towards increased
complexity to continue. In addition, we expect that in the future, other more
advanced materials will be used in IC devices, and will need to be polished with
CMP.

     The multi-step manufacturing process for IC devices typically begins with a
circular wafer of pure silicon. A large number of identical IC devices, or dies,
are manufactured on each wafer at the same time. The first step in the
manufacturing process builds transistors and other electronic components on the
silicon wafer. These are then isolated from each other to prevent electrical
signals from bridging from one transistor to another by using a technique called
shallow trench isolation ("STI"). Once the transistors and other electronic
components are in place on the silicon wafer, they are usually covered with a
layer of insulating material, most often silicon dioxide. These components are
then wired together using either aluminum or copper in a particular sequence to
produce a functional IC device with particular characteristics; copper wiring
currently is used in the most advanced devices. At the end of the process, the
wafer is cut into the individual dies, which are then packaged to form
individual chips.

     The two major segments in the IC industry that use CMP are logic and
memory. Logic devices include chips such as microprocessors, digital signal
processors (DSP), microcomponents and microcontrollers. These are normally
computing intensive devices that need to perform large numbers of processing
steps every second.
                                        2
<PAGE>

As a result, these chips, particularly the leading microprocessors and DSPs,
usually require use of the latest technology that increases speed of signal
processing. The leading logic chips use copper wiring to provide that speed
since copper wiring has lower resistance than aluminum wiring, which is used in
older logic devices and in chips that do not require this speed. Memory devices,
which include flash, DRAM and SRAM chips, function by reading, storing and
writing data. Traditionally this segment has been highly cost sensitive and
processing speed is not as critical. Therefore, memory devices tend to use
aluminum wiring, which represents a lower cost approach than copper.

     CMP is used to planarize the various insulating layers of an IC device and
prepare them for a process known as metallization. During metallization, wiring
is added to the surface of the insulating layer through a series of steps
involving the following: deposition of a metal onto the surface of the layer;
projection of an image of the desired wiring pattern on the layer using a
process known as photolithography; and removal of the excess deposited metal
from the surface of the insulating layer, which leaves behind the desired wiring
pattern. If the IC device uses aluminum wiring, the excess metal is removed
using a process called etching. If the IC device uses copper wiring, the excess
metal is removed by a CMP process step.

     When the wiring on a particular layer of the IC device is finished, another
layer of insulating material is added and may be planarized using CMP. This
process of alternating insulating and wiring layers is repeated until the
desired wiring within the IC device is completed. The electronic components and
wiring layers are connected by conductive plugs that are formed by making holes
in the insulating layers and filling those holes with metal, usually tungsten
for aluminum wiring or copper for copper wiring. After these holes have been
filled with metal, either an etching process for aluminum wiring or CMP for
copper wiring, is used to remove all the excess metal above the surface of the
insulating layer so that the top of the plug is level with the surface of the
insulating layer before the next wiring layer is built.

     The number of transistors on a chip has increased exponentially since the
inception of the IC industry, generally following what is referred to as
"Moore's Law", in which the number of transistors on an integrated circuit
historically has doubled every 12-18 months. This has driven relentless
improvement in the speed and a reduction in the cost of computing power
available today. As a result of this evolution, the number of wires and the
number of wiring layers in an IC device have also increased. To accommodate and
standardize these increases, the semiconductor industry follows generally
accepted design rules that describe current and projected size and spacing of
electronic components and wiring in IC devices. To date, the size and spacing in
these design rules have been progressively decreasing to accommodate the demand
for increased circuit density and transistor miniaturization. As the density has
increased, the amount of wiring needed to connect the transistors and other
electronic components to each other also has increased. As IC devices have
become smaller, this increase in wiring has required tighter and more precise
spacing of the wiring, and an increased number of wiring layers in IC devices.
The industry uses the term "node" to define advancement of technology from one
generation to the next. For example, in the present 130 nanometer node, the size
of the smallest wire on the chip is 130 nanometers. Historically the industry
has moved from one node to the next in a time frame of roughly two years. Today,
the leading participants in the industry are migrating from the 130 nanometer to
the 90 nanometer node. Although we expect technology to continue to advance in
the future, we have recently observed that the time between adoption of one
technology node to adoption of the next technology node appears to be
increasing.

     Most IC devices today are manufactured on 200 mm silicon wafers. However, a
significant development for the IC industry is the transition to manufacturing
IC devices using 300 mm wafers. The industry leaders are driving this change
from 200 mm to 300 mm wafers to reduce the cost of making each chip. In general,
300 mm wafer manufacturing began in 2002 and this trend is expected to
accelerate in the future. The larger 300 mm wafers contain more IC devices and
typically use less CMP slurry per device.

  CHEMICAL MECHANICAL PLANARIZATION

     The CMP process utilizes a combination of chemical reactions and mechanical
abrasion to planarize the insulating and conductive layers of an IC device that
are built upon a silicon wafer. During the CMP process the wafer is typically
held on a rotating carrier, which is spun at high speed and pressed against a
rotating polishing table. The portion of the table that comes in contact with
the wafer is covered by a textured polishing pad. A

                                        3
<PAGE>

CMP slurry is continuously applied to the polishing pad to facilitate and
enhance the polishing process. CMP slurries are liquid solutions generally
composed of high-purity deionized water, proprietary chemical additives and
engineered abrasives that chemically and mechanically interact with the surface
material of the IC device at an atomic level. CMP pads are engineered polymeric
materials designed to distribute and transport the slurry to the surface of the
wafer and distribute it evenly across the wafer.

  BENEFITS OF CMP

     CMP provides IC device manufacturers with a number of advantages. CMP
enables IC device manufacturers to produce IC devices that are smaller and of
greater density of transistors and other electronic components, both of which
improve the performance and capabilities of the device. As IC devices shrink and
become denser, they require smaller feature sizes and tighter spacing among the
device wiring. If the surface is not level, the smaller feature size and tighter
spacing make it more difficult for the photolithography equipment to focus
accurately and create the desired wiring pattern. In addition, because today's
smaller, denser IC devices have more layers than previous devices, any
unevenness of a layer at or near the bottom of an IC device will be magnified in
the additional layers that are added to the device. Defects caused by problems
in the photolithography process or unevenness in the layers can lead to short
circuits, reduced performance and at worst, failure of the IC device. By using
CMP, IC device manufacturers can eliminate or minimize these problems.

     By enabling IC device manufacturers to make smaller IC devices, CMP allows
them to increase the number of IC devices that fit on a wafer. This increase in
the number of IC devices that fit on a wafer in turn increases the throughput,
or the number of IC devices that can be manufactured in a given time period, and
reduces the cost per chip. CMP also helps reduce the number of defective or
substandard IC devices produced, which increases the device yield. Improvements
in throughput and yield reduce an IC device manufacturer's unit production
costs. Manufacturers have the opportunity to achieve further improvements in
throughput and yield as new improvements to the CMP process help to reduce
defect rates and decrease the amount of time required for the polishing process.

  CMP SLURRIES

     The characteristics that are important for an effective CMP process
include:

     - high polishing rates, which increase productivity and throughput;

     - high selectivity, which is the ability to enhance the polishing of
       specific materials while at the same time inhibiting the polishing of
       other materials;

     - uniform planarity, which minimizes unevenness as different layers are
       built on the wafer;

     - uniformity of polishing, which means that different surface materials can
       be polished to the same degree at the same time across the wafer, leading
       to uniformity of all dies on the wafer;

     - low defectivity, which means that the devices have fewer imperfections
       and therefore produce higher yield; and

     - cost, which is important for users to minimize their cost of
       manufacturing.

     These attributes may be achieved through technical optimization of both the
slurry and the pad in conjunction with an appropriately designed CMP process.
These qualities affect and enhance the performance of IC devices, and most also
have the ability to reduce the cost of ownership of the CMP process for IC
device manufacturers. Cost of ownership is the result of a calculation by which
IC device manufacturers evaluate the benefits and costs of each production step
by analyzing the impact of that step on throughput and yield, compared with the
costs of the production inputs of that step.

     Prior to introducing new or different CMP slurries into its manufacturing
process, an IC device manufacturer generally requires the product to be
qualified in its plant through a series of tests and evaluations. These
qualifications are intended to ensure that the product will function properly in
the manufacturing process, as well as to optimize its application. These tests
may require changes to the CMP process or the CMP slurry.

                                        4
<PAGE>

While this qualification process varies depending on numerous factors, it is not
unusual for it to be very costly and to take six or more months to complete. IC
device manufacturers usually take the cost, time delay and impact on production
into account when they consider implementing or switching to a new CMP slurry.

INDUSTRY TRENDS

     The semiconductor industry has experienced rapid growth over the past three
decades, but it has also been highly cyclical and prone to downturns on a
relatively regular two to three year basis. Over the past one to two years, the
industry was in an expansion phase, as it had been recovering from one of the
most severe downturns in its history, following the end of the technology boom
of the late 1990's. While 2004 has been a strong growth year for the industry,
there are indications that 2005 will be a year of moderating revenue growth for
the broad semiconductor industry, and possibly even a contraction.

     Over the next several years, we believe that growth in emerging consumer
connectivity and wireless technologies such as digital mobile phones, digital
still and video cameras, digital television and portable media will represent
the next wave in the semiconductor industry. We believe that the increased
emphasis on memory technology and the incorporation of advanced memory products
into digital consumer devices will drive additional growth in the industry over
the long term, in parallel with the industry's traditional emphasis on
microprocessors for personal computers.

     We anticipate the worldwide market for CMP consumables used by IC device
manufacturers will grow in the future as a result of expected increases in the
number of IC devices produced, the percentage of IC devices produced that
require CMP and the number of CMP polishing steps used to produce these devices.
In addition, we believe that technology advances will require the use of new
materials in IC device manufacture that will require new CMP solutions. We
expect this anticipated growth will be somewhat mitigated by efficiencies in CMP
slurry usage, driven by pressure on IC manufacturers to reduce their CMP costs.
Some examples of these potential efficiencies include the transition by IC
manufacturers from 200 mm to 300 mm wafers, as well as the development of
technologies intended to reduce slurry usage. In addition, we have recently
observed that the time between adoption of one technology node to the adoption
of the next technology node appears to be increasing.

     As CMP technology has become more advanced, we believe that CMP technical
solutions have become more complex, and leading edge technologies now often
require some customization by customer, tool set and process integration
approach. Further, as CMP technology has matured, we believe that semiconductor
manufacturers' processes have become highly sensitive to CMP slurries, and
customers now demand a very high level of consistency and quality in CMP slurry
products.

     Another trend that we have observed is the continued transition of IC
manufacturing to the Asia Pacific region.

STRATEGY

     In an effort to maintain our leadership in IC CMP slurries as well as grow
our business profitably, we intend to continue to pursue the following
strategies:

  ADVANCE OUR TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP

     We believe that technology is vital to success in the CMP slurry business
and we plan to continue to devote significant resources to research and
development. We need to keep pace with the rapid technological advances in the
semiconductor industry so we can continue to deliver products that meet or
exceed our customers' evolving needs. Our technology efforts are focused on
three main areas: development of new products for specific applications; process
development to support rapid and effective commercialization of new products;
and, development of fundamental enabling technology to provide new platforms for
future generation products. Additionally, we plan to expand our technology
infrastructure by constructing an Asia Pacific technology center in Geino, Japan
which will add polishing, metrology and product development capability to
support our customers in the Asia Pacific region.

                                        5
<PAGE>

  ACHIEVE OPERATIONS EXCELLENCE

     Our customers demand increasing performance of our products in terms of
product quality and consistency and expect a reliable supply source. We believe
the capacity and the location of our production facilities in the United States,
Europe and Asia allow us to provide a reliable supply chain to meet our
customers' CMP slurry requirements in a consistent and timely manner. We intend
to advance our strict quality controls in order to improve the uniformity and
consistency of performance of our CMP products. To support our operations
excellence initiative, we have broadly introduced the concepts of Six Sigma,
which is a systematic, data-driven approach and methodology for improving
quality by reducing variability in processes, across our company. We believe
there may be significant opportunities to improve product quality and to capture
productivity and efficiency gains through this process.

  BECOME CLOSER TO OUR CUSTOMERS

     We believe that building close relationships with our customers is another
cornerstone for long-term success in our business. We work closely with our
customers to identify and develop new and better CMP consumables, to integrate
our products into their manufacturing processes and to assist them with supply,
warehousing, packaging and inventory management. We have devoted significant
resources to enhancing our close customer relationships and we are committed to
continuing this effort. As more of our business shifts to the Asia Pacific
region, we are reinforcing our customer commitment by constructing an Asia
Pacific technology center in Geino, Japan, which we believe will enhance our
ability to provide optimized CMP solutions to our customers in this region.

  EXPAND INTO NEW APPLICATIONS AND PRODUCTS

     We intend to leverage our CMP experience and technology to explore new
applications and products to diversify and grow our business, such as we have
accomplished with our slurries for data storage polishing applications. We
believe that we have unique capabilities to modify surfaces of materials using
chemistry in conjunction with mechanical abrasion, at an atomic level, which may
provide enhanced or previously unseen performance that can be applied to a range
of fine finish polishing applications.

  EXPAND GLOBAL PRESENCE

     We believe that having production facilities, personnel and technical
resources in strategic locations around the world is important to the success of
our business, particularly in light of increased IC device manufacturing in
Asia. Accordingly, we have established operations in North America, Asia Pacific
and Europe, including production facilities in the United States, Barry, Wales
and Geino, Japan. We also have assembled a team of business professionals,
account managers and technical support personnel strategically located in the
United States, Europe, Taiwan, Singapore, Japan, China and South Korea. Further,
we are expanding our technology infrastructure through our planned Asia Pacific
technology center which we believe will enhance our ability to provide optimized
CMP solutions to our customers in the Asia Pacific region. We intend to continue
to expand our production capacity and technical and sales support in locations
around the world where our customers are concentrated.

  ATTRACT AND RETAIN WORLD-CLASS PERSONNEL

     We have assembled a highly skilled and dedicated workforce that includes a
wide range of scientists, applications specialists and business professionals,
many of whom have significant experience in the semiconductor industry. We plan
to continue to attract, motivate, develop and retain experienced personnel who
are committed to providing high-performance products and strong customer and
applications support.

PRODUCTS

  CMP SLURRIES FOR IC DEVICES

     We produce CMP slurries of various formulations for polishing a wide
variety of materials. In addition to improving our existing tungsten and oxide
slurries, we focus on developing new slurries to keep pace with our
                                        6
<PAGE>

customers' evolving needs. Our new generations of tungsten and oxide slurries,
which are currently the most common use of CMP in IC device manufacturing, are
designed to improve flatness, reduce defects in IC devices and reduce the
required polishing time.

     We also manufacture slurry products for polishing copper used in the wiring
layers of the most advanced IC devices and are working on next generation
slurries for these applications. These products include different slurries for
polishing the primary copper film, as well as the thin barrier metal layer used
in copper wiring. We have also developed a slurry for an application known as
direct STI which helps eliminate a number of manufacturing steps for our
customers. We continue to work closely with our customers to develop advanced
slurries to meet their evolving technological needs.

  CMP SLURRIES FOR THE DATA STORAGE INDUSTRY

     We produce CMP slurries for polishing the magnetic heads and the coating on
disks in hard disk drives by leveraging our core slurry technology and
manufacturing capacity, as well as by employing personnel who understand the
needs of the data storage industry. We believe CMP significantly improves the
surface finish of these coatings, resulting in greater storage capacity of the
substrates, and also improves the production efficiency of manufacturers of hard
disk drives by helping them increase their throughput and yield. We have also
established a dedicated research and development team and an applications
support team similar to that used for our other slurry products.

  CMP POLISHING PADS

     CMP polishing pads are consumable materials used in the CMP process that
work in conjunction with CMP slurries to facilitate the polishing process. We
believe the CMP polishing pad market is currently led by one principal supplier,
Rohm and Haas. Through discussions with our customers, as well as our own
examination of the CMP polishing pad market, we have determined that demand
exists for higher quality, more reliable and consistent polishing pads. We
previously had participated in the polishing pad business as a value added
reseller of pads supplied to us by a third party. However, due to what we
believe was a less than acceptable level of profitability under this value-added
reseller model, the distribution agreement was terminated by mutual agreement in
June 2004. We continue to believe that there is value in co-developing slurries
and pads to achieve technically optimized CMP solutions. We continue our
development of pads utilizing our own and licensed technology.

CUSTOMERS, SALES AND MARKETING

     Our sales process begins with development teams who work closely with our
customers, using our research and development facilities to design CMP products
tailored to their precise needs. Next, our applications teams work with
customers to integrate our products into their manufacturing processes. Finally,
our logistics and sales personnel work to provide reliable supply, warehousing,
packaging and inventory management to our customers. Through our interactive
approach, we are able to build close relationships with our customers in a
variety of areas.

     We also market our products through independent distributors primarily in
Taiwan and China. Over the last few years we have reduced the number of
resellers that distribute our products, employing more of a direct sales model.

     In response to significant growth in the IC device manufacturing industry
in Asia, we have increased our focus in Asia over the last several years by
increasing the number of sales and marketing, technical and customer support
personnel present in this region. In addition, during the fourth fiscal quarter
of 2004 we commenced design work on an Asia Pacific technology center. The
technology center, which will be located adjacent to our existing manufacturing
facility in Geino, Japan, is expected to become operational during the second
half of 2005, and will include polishing, metrology and product development
capability to support our customers in this region.

     In fiscal 2004, our five largest customers, of which one is a distributor,
accounted for approximately 55% of our revenue, with Marketech (our distributor
in Taiwan and China), and Intel accounting for approximately
                                        7
<PAGE>

32% and 9% of our revenue, respectively. In fiscal year 2003, our five largest
customers, of which two were distributors, accounted for approximately 61% of
our revenue, with Marketech and Intel accounting for approximately 28% and 15%
of our revenue, respectively. In June 2003, we completed our transition to
selling directly to customers in Europe, Singapore and Malaysia who previously
had been serviced through one of these distributors.

CABOT CORPORATION AS OUR MAJOR SUPPLIER OF RAW MATERIALS

     The base ingredients for most of our CMP slurries are ultra-fine, high
purity fumed metal oxides -- fumed silica and fumed alumina -- that are both
produced by a flame process. From the time of our initial public offering in
April 2000 to January 2004, we purchased fumed silica and fumed alumina under a
fumed metal oxide agreement with Cabot Corporation that was due to expire in
June 2005. In January 2004 we entered into a fumed silica supply agreement with
Cabot Corporation, which replaced the original fumed metal oxide agreement with
respect to fumed silica, and accordingly amended our fumed metal oxide agreement
with respect to its fumed silica terms such that the agreement now only applies
to fumed alumina and runs through June 2005. This fumed silica supply agreement
provides for improved supply assurance, reduces our risk to rising raw material
costs and implements improved quality performance measures and requirements that
support our initiative to increase product quality and consistency. The contract
provides for the cost of fumed silica to increase approximately 4% over the
initial six-year term of the fumed silica supply agreement, and in some
circumstances is subject to certain inflation adjustments and certain shared
cost savings adjustments resulting from our joint efforts. Under the fumed
silica supply agreement, Cabot Corporation continues to be our primary supplier,
subject to certain terms and conditions, of fumed silica for our slurry products
produced as of the effective date of the fumed silica supply agreement. Subject
to those terms and for products introduced since that time, we have the
flexibility to purchase from other parties. The agreement prohibits Cabot
Corporation from selling fumed silica to third parties for, or engaging itself
in its use in, CMP applications. This agreement expires in December 2009 and
will automatically renew unless either party gives certain notice of
non-renewal.

     In addition, since December 2001, we have operated under a fumed alumina
supply agreement with Cabot Corporation under which Cabot Corporation expanded
its capacity for the manufacture of fumed alumina, and we have the first right
to all of this expanded capacity. The agreement provides that the price we pay
to Cabot Corporation for fumed alumina is based on all of its fixed and variable
costs for producing the fumed alumina, plus its capital costs for expanding its
capacity, plus an agreed upon rate of return on investment, plus incentive
payments if they produce more than a certain amount of fumed alumina per year
that meets our specifications. Under this agreement, Cabot Corporation is the
exclusive supplier of certain quantities of fumed alumina for products we
produced as of the effective date of the agreement, subject to certain terms and
conditions. For amounts over these quantities, and for products we introduce
after the effective date, we have the flexibility to purchase from other
parties. The agreement prohibits Cabot Corporation from selling fumed alumina to
third parties for, or engaging itself in its use in, CMP applications. The
agreement has an initial five-year term and we may renew the agreement for an
additional five-years to 2011.

     If Cabot Corporation fails to supply us with our requirements for any
reason, including if we require product specification changes that Cabot
Corporation cannot meet, we have the right to purchase products meeting those
specifications from other suppliers.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     We believe our leadership position depends in part on our ability to
develop CMP applications tailored to our customers' needs. In our product
development and dispersion technology laboratories, our skilled technical
personnel study different aspects of the CMP process and CMP products, such as
various studies of chemical reactions on the surfaces of wafers. Results from
these studies allow us to adjust the composition of our slurries to achieve
uniform polishing performance. Understanding the chemical processes on the
surface of the polished wafer allows us to compose slurries with specifically
tailored selectivity that interact with one material and then slow or
essentially stop planarization as soon as this particular material has been
polished. We have also assembled dedicated development teams that work closely
with customers to identify their specific technology

                                        8
<PAGE>

and manufacturing challenges and to translate these challenges into viable CMP
process solutions. We have dedicated substantial resources in research &
development in each of the copper, tungsten and oxide application areas to
support our customers' requirements.

     We expanded our existing research and development capabilities in fiscal
2002 with the opening of a new research and development facility in Aurora,
Illinois. This facility is staffed by a team that includes experts from the
semiconductor industry and scientists from key disciplines required for the
development of high-performance CMP products and features a state-of-the-art
Class 1 clean room and advanced equipment for product development. We have also
invested in 300 mm polishing and metrology capabilities to remain aligned with
our technology leading customers and provide us with the ability to replicate
their CMP activities in our clean room. In addition, in the fourth fiscal
quarter of 2004 we commenced design work on a new Asia Pacific technology center
that will be constructed adjacent to our existing manufacturing facility in
Geino, Japan. The new 18,000 square foot facility will provide polishing,
metrology and product development capabilities. The technology center will
include a clean room, development and applications laboratories, a pilot plant
and office space. We expect the facility to become operational during the second
half of 2005. We believe the technology center will enhance our ability to
provide optimized CMP solutions to our customers in the Asia Pacific region. We
believe competitive advantage lies in technology and that our existing and
planned investments in research and development provide us with leading edge
polishing and metrology capabilities to support the most advanced and
challenging customer technology requirements on a global basis.

     We expensed approximately $44.0 million, $41.5 million and $33.7 million
for research and development in fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Investments in research and development property, plant and equipment are
capitalized and depreciated over their useful life.

COMPETITION

     We are aware of several other manufacturers of CMP consumables with
significant commercial sales of CMP slurries for IC devices and, due to our
success to date and the attractive outlook for the CMP industry, we expect
competition will continue to increase as other companies attempt to enter this
market. Competitive activity has also increased due to customer desires to gain
purchasing leverage and lower their cost of ownership. We believe that customers
make supplier decisions based on three factors, in this order of priority:
first, product performance; second, supply assurance, which entails not only
redundancy in manufacturing but the ability of the supplier to reliably deliver
consistent product and provide technical and manufacturing support for the
product globally; and third, product price. We believe we are the only CMP
slurry supplier today that offers and supports a full line of CMP slurry
products for all major applications, serves a broad range of customers and has a
proven track record of supplying these products globally in high volumes. In the
data storage area we believe there are only two other manufacturers with
significant commercial sales of CMP slurries for polishing the nickel coating on
hard disk drives, and two other manufacturers with significant commercial sales
of CMP slurries for polishing magnetic heads.

     We may also face competition in the future from other companies that
develop CMP products, customers that currently have, or that may develop,
in-house capability to produce their own CMP products, and from significant
changes in technology, such as the development of polishing pads containing
abrasives and emerging technologies such as electrochemical mechanical
planarization ("eCMP").

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     Our intellectual property is important to our success and ability to
compete. We currently have 65 active U.S. patents and 93 pending U.S. patent
applications. In most cases we file counterpart foreign patent applications.
Many of these patents are important to our continued development of new and
innovative products for CMP and related processes. Our patents have a range of
duration and we do not expect to lose any material patent through the expiration
of such patent in the next seven years. We attempt to protect our intellectual
property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade
secret laws, as well as employee and third party nondisclosure and assignment
agreements.

                                        9
<PAGE>

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Our facilities are subject to various environmental laws and regulations,
including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling
and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and occupational safety and health.
We believe that our facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable
environmental laws and regulations. We have incurred, and will continue to
incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with
these laws and regulations in both the United States and abroad. However, we
currently do not anticipate that the future costs of environmental compliance
will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations.

EMPLOYEES

     As of September 30, 2004, we employed 585 individuals, including 279 in
operations, 180 in research and development, 65 in sales and marketing and 61 in
administration. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and in general consider
our relations with our employees to be good.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

     Our revenue from customers in the United States totaled $78.1 million,
$79.9 million and $81.0 million, and total revenue in other geographic locations
totaled $231.3 million, $171.8 million and $154.2 million for fiscal years 2004,
2003 and 2002, respectively. Revenue from Taiwan and Japan each accounted for
more than ten percent of our total revenue. Our revenue from customers in Taiwan
totaled $86.3 million, $63.8 million and $54.9 million for fiscal years 2004,
2003 and 2002, respectively. Our revenue from customers in Japan totaled $44.9,
$40.3 million and $34.2 million for fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. Revenue attributable to foreign regions are based upon the
customer location and not the geographic location from which our products were
shipped.

     Net property, plant and equipment in the United States totaled $94.8
million, $102.8 million and $100.9 million and net property, plant and equipment
in other geographic locations totaled $33.0 million, $30.9 million and $31.4
million at September 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. More than ten
percent of our net property, plant and equipment is located in Japan, having a
net book value of $30.2 million, $28.1 million and $27.1 million at September
30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     For more financial information about geographic areas, see Note 19 of Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8 -- Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data."

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

     Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, definitive
proxy statements on Form 14a, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to
those reports, are made available free of charge on our company website at
www.cabotcmp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Statements of changes in
beneficial ownership of our securities on Form 4 by our executive officers and
directors are made available on our company website by the end of the business
day following the submission to the SEC of such filings. In addition, the SEC's
website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy statements, and other information
regarding reports that we file electronically with the SEC.
