Item 1.    Business 

 

Introduction 

 

Cree, Inc., a North Carolina corporation established in 1987, develops and manufactures semiconductor materials and devices based on silicon carbide (SiC), Group III nitrides (GaN), silicon, and related compounds. Our SiC and GaN materials technology is the basis for many of the devices that we develop and produce. The physical and electronic properties of SiC and GaN offer technical advantages over traditional silicon, gallium arsenide (GaAs), sapphire and other materials for certain electronic applications, which enable devices to attain a higher voltage level and higher thermal conductivity. We focus our expertise in SiC and GaN materials on four product areas: LEDs, including blue, green and near ultraviolet (UV) LED chips and high power packaged LEDs, power switching products, radio frequency (RF) and microwave devices, and near UV lasers. We have products commercially available in each of these categories except for near UV lasers. We also manufacture silicon RF transistors and modules. 

 

As of the end of fiscal 2004, we derive the majority of our revenues from sales of our LED products. We also generate revenue from sales of SiC and GaN materials, and we earn revenue under government contracts that support certain of our research and development programs to the extent the contract funding exceeds our direct cost of performing those activities. In addition, we derive a small portion of revenue from our sales of materials used for gemstones and devices for wireless infrastructure and power switching applications. We currently are working to develop near UV lasers that are targeted for future optical storage markets. 

 

Most semiconductor devices are fabricated on wafers made from silicon crystals. Silicon evolved as the dominant semiconductor material because it is relatively easy to grow into large, high quality single crystals that are suitable for fabricating many types of electronic devices. Alternative semiconductors such as GaAs were developed to enable the fabrication of improved RF devices and optoelectronic products such as red 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
LEDs and lasers. Wide bandgap semiconductors, such as SiC and GaN, have emerged to provide improved capabilities for solid-state devices. SiC is most commonly targeted for power and RF devices, while GaN is generally targeted for optoelectronic applications such as blue, green or UV LEDs and near UV lasers, as well as higher frequency microwave devices. 

 

We operate our business in two segments, the Cree segment, which consists of our SiC and GaN-based products and research contracts, and the Cree Microwave segment, which includes silicon-based RF transistors and RF transistor modules. Our Cree Microwave segment began operations with the December 2000 acquisition of the UltraRF business from Spectrian Corporation (Spectrian). The UltraRF acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method. We renamed the UltraRF business Cree Microwave during fiscal 2002. Additionally, our Cree segment acquired Nitres, Inc. (Nitres) in May 2000 in a business combination accounted for as a pooling of interests. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Cree segment acquired the GaN substrate and epitaxy business of Advanced Technology Materials, Inc. (ATMI). We accounted for this acquisition under the purchase method. 

 

The majority of our Cree segment products are manufactured in Durham, North Carolina in a six-part process, which includes: SiC crystal growth, wafering, polishing, epitaxial deposition, fabrication and testing. The GaN substrate and epitaxy business acquired from ATMI in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 is currently operating at an ATMI facility in Danbury, Connecticut. We anticipate moving this business to Durham, North Carolina during fiscal 2005. The Cree segment also operates a research and development facility called the Santa Barbara Technology Center (SBTC) in Goleta, California. Our Cree Microwave products are produced in Sunnyvale, California at our silicon wafer fabrication facility, where we buy silicon wafers from third parties, fabricate devices in a clean room environment and test and package finished products. Subcontractors located domestically and in foreign countries also package some of our products. 

 

Products and Products under Development 

 

Cree Segment: 

 

The Cree segment produces LEDs, SiC and GaN materials products, SiC-based power devices and RF microwave transistors using our SiC and GaN materials. In addition, we currently are developing near UV laser devices in this segment. 

 

LEDs 

 

Blue, Green and Near UV LED Chips.    Our LED chip products include blue, green and near UV devices made from GaN and related materials grown on SiC substrates. LEDs are solid-state electronic components used in a number of applications, including backlighting for handheld mobile appliances such as cell phones and automotive dashboards. In addition, groups of LEDs make up single or full-color electronic displays, including display signs or traffic signals, or they can be used as indicator lights for gaming equipment, consumer products and other electronic equipment. Some of our customers package our blue LEDs with a phosphor coating to create white LEDs. Our customers’ white LED products are used in various applications for mobile appliances, including the backlight for full color display screens; white keypads and the camera flash function. Our customers’ white LEDs also are used as a light source for a number of specialized lighting applications. LEDs offer several advantages over small incandescent bulbs, including longer life, lower maintenance cost and energy consumption, and smaller space requirements. We currently sell the majority of our LEDs in chip form to customers who package them in a variety of applications. LEDs represented 78%, 75% and 58% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002, respectively. 

 

Our LED chips are currently available in three brightness ranges, which we refer to as standard brightness, mid-brightness and our high-brightness range. Our standard brightness LED chips, offered in blue wavelengths only, target applications requiring high quality and high volume availability at a lower price 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
point. End customers use this product for applications where higher brightness may not be required, such as for indoor applications, certain automotive designs or as indicator lights. In fiscal 2004, these products comprised 8% of our LED revenues. 

 

Our mid-brightness range includes our UltraBright® and SuperBright™ LEDs. Our mid-brightness LEDs provide an option for applications that require a higher level of brightness than provided by our standard brightness LEDs, but still need a low price point. End user applications include the backlight source for mobile appliances, which includes the keypad area of mobile phones and other small hand-held devices, and automotive dashboards. Our customers also use mid-brightness LEDs in gaming displays, consumer products, office equipment and full color video displays. In order to respond to market demand for keypad handset applications, we released the UT230 product in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. This product provides a thin form factor and a lower forward voltage, which is designed to extend battery life over standard LEDs. The UT230 is targeted for the mobile appliance market as it offers a lower selling price than our other mid-brightness LEDs. Our mid-brightness LEDs are offered in blue, traffic green, and true green. In fiscal 2004, this category of product comprised 43% of our LED revenue. 

 

Our high-brightness products include our MegaBright®, XBright® and XThin™ and our XBright XB900 and XB500 power chip LED products. Some of our customers use our high-brightness LEDs to create white light from blue LEDs by combining them with phosphors. Target applications for blue LEDs that are converted to white light consist of mobile appliances, including backlighting for full color displays, white keypads and camera flashes, as well as miniature white lights and other illumination applications. Some of our customers also use our high-brightness LEDs for traffic signals, video screens and automotive backlighting. In order to address the markets for higher power LEDs, we developed the XB900 power chip. These LEDs are approximately nine times larger than industry standard size (300 x 300 microns) LEDs and aim to deliver approximately 10 times the light output due to operation at a much higher input power than our standard XBright chips. As a result, these chips could be used in a new range of lighting applications. In fiscal 2004, we announced the release of an XBright XB500 power chip for applications in the one-half watt power range. Both the XB900 and XB500 chips are currently available. Our high-brightness LEDs are offered in blue, traffic green, true green and near UV wavelengths. In fiscal 2004, this category of LEDs comprised 49% of our LED revenue. 

 

High Power Packaged LEDs.    We are developing high power packaged LEDs that are designed to compete with incandescent lighting technology for certain specialty lighting applications. In the near term, we do not anticipate that our LEDs will be able to compete with incandescent and fluorescent bulbs for conventional lighting markets due to their cost, efficiency, brightness and other factors. However, in some applications, such as architectural lighting, LEDs can be advantageous because of their design flexibility and can be less expensive than incandescent bulbs due to lower energy requirements, longer life and reduced maintenance costs. 

 

In October 2003, we announced the introduction of our XLamp™ family of high power packaged LEDs, which are designed for emerging lighting applications. We started shipping the 7090 series XLamp product in June 2004. The 7090 series product combines our XB900 power chip with a high power surface mount package that is designed to operate up to one watt of power. We also introduced our 4550 series XLamp product, which incorporates our XB500 chip and is targeted to operate at up to one half watt of electrical power. The 7090 and 4550 XLamp series are designed for architectural lighting and specialty illumination applications such as channel letter lighting, appliance lighting and reading lamps. The future targeted applications for our power chip and XLamp packaged products include solid-state illumination applications, automotive lighting and backlighting for large format liquid crystal display (LCD) screens. 

 

Materials Products 

 

Our materials products consist of SiC and GaN wafer and epitaxy products and bulk SiC materials used for gemstone applications. 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
SiC and GaN Wafers.    We manufacture SiC wafers for sale to corporate customers who use the wafers in manufacturing products for optoelectronic and power device applications. Corporate, government and university programs also buy SiC and GaN wafers for research and development directed to optoelectronic, microwave and high power devices. We sell our wafers as a bare wafer or a customized wafer with epitaxial films of SiC or GaN materials, depending upon the nature of our customer’s needs. We currently sell both two-inch and three-inch wafers. Wafer products represented 7%, 9% and 11% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002, respectively. 

 

Over the past few years, we have continued to expand our product line of three-inch wafers, which are better suited for the manufacture of power and microwave devices. We continue to develop SiC wafers that are larger and of higher quality. These wafers have potential for higher yield and lower cost for devices made from them. As a result, we plan to migrate the majority of the manufacture of our LED products to a three-inch wafer platform during fiscal 2005. 

 

Bulk Materials Used for Gemstones.    We manufacture SiC crystals in near colorless form for use in gemstone applications. Single crystalline SiC has characteristics that are similar to diamond, including properties relating to color, hardness and brilliance. We sell SiC in bulk crystal form exclusively to Charles & Colvard, Ltd. (C&C), which produces and markets gemstone products made from SiC crystals. SiC materials sold for gemstone applications represented 2%, 3%, and 2% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002, respectively. 

 

SiC-based Power Devices 

 

SiC-based power devices can operate at significantly higher breakdown voltages than silicon-based power devices and provide faster switching speeds than comparable silicon-based power devices at similar breakdown voltages. These attributes create a lower switching loss, which yields power savings due to higher efficiency, enabling smaller and more efficient systems. 

 

Our SiC-based power products are 300-volt Schottky diodes for output rectifiers and power factor correction in power supplies. We also offer 600-volt Schottky diodes for applications such as power supplies used in computer servers and 1200-volt Schottky diodes targeted for motor control applications. We are marketing these products to manufacturers of power conditioning and power switching equipment as potential replacements for silicon-based power devices in certain applications. SiC-based power devices represented 1% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended June 27, 2004. SiC-based power devices represented less than 1% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002. 

 

We are developing additional prototype SiC-based power devices, including PIN diodes and power MOSFETs, which could have many potential uses such as power conditioning and power switching applications. 

 

RF and Microwave Transistors 

 

RF and microwave devices made from SiC can operate at higher voltages, which allows for higher power densities as compared to silicon or GaAs-based devices. Additionally, this characteristic allows SiC-based devices to be significantly smaller while carrying the same or greater power levels than silicon-based or GaAs-based devices. Currently, there is a higher cost associated with SiC than silicon or GaAs-based devices for RF and microwave transistors. 

 

We currently offer a 10-watt SiC transistor product, or metal-semiconductor field effect transistor (MESFET) product. We also have sampled 60-watt SiC MESFET chips to select customers. Additionally, we provide a foundry service for wide bandgap monolithic microwave integrated circuits (MMICs). These SiC-based RF circuits can be used in a variety of wide bandwidth communications applications, high-power radar amplifiers, electronic warfare, and wireless infrastructure. The MMIC foundry service allows a 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
customer to design its own custom SiC RF circuit to be fabricated in our MMIC foundry, or have us provide custom MMIC design for the customer and fabricate the chips. We intend to focus future development efforts in this area on creating higher power SiC MESFETs and GaN RF devices. SiC MESFET and MMIC devices represented less than 1% of revenue for each of the fiscal years ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002. 

 

Near UV Laser Diodes 

 

We have demonstrated near UV lasers (sometimes referred to as blue lasers) that operate at power levels ranging from 3 milliwatts to greater than 100 milliwatts. Our development activity continues to focus on developing more reliable and higher performance devices. The primary target market for our lasers is optical disk drives for next generation digital versatile disk (DVD) and computer data storage applications. The shorter wavelength of near UV products enables significantly higher storage capacity than the current generation of optical drives, which employ red lasers. At this point, numerous standards are being proposed for the next generation of DVDs including Blu-ray and High Density Digital Versatile Disk (HD-DVD). 

 

Cree Microwave Segment: 

 

Our Cree Microwave segment produces bipolar and laterally diffused metal oxide semiconductor (LDMOS) devices made from silicon substrates. These products enable us to offer our customers an array of power transistors designed to meet a broad spectrum of the current and potential wireless infrastructure markets. These products represent the main semiconductor content of a power amplifier, which is used in a base station to boost the power of a signal so that it can reach a wireless phone or other device within a designated geography. During fiscal 2004, Cree Microwave also began to sell products targeted for the military and aeronautics (mil-aero) markets. Cree Microwave’s RF products represented 3%, 1%, and 16% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002, respectively. 

 

Prior to fiscal 2003, sales to Spectrian represented 99% of Cree Microwave’s revenue. In November 2002, we entered into an agreement with Spectrian to terminate our supply contract. During fiscal 2004, the majority of the segment’s revenues represented sales to new customers for LDMOS designs for wireless infrastructure and mil-aero business. 

 

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas of Customers and Assets 

 

For financial information about business segments and geographical areas of customers, please see Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Matters” to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. All of our long-lived tangible assets currently are maintained in the United States. 

 

Government Contract Funding 

 

We derive a portion of our revenue from funding that we receive pursuant to research contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government. We had 33, 19 and 18 government contracts in effect during the fiscal years ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002, respectively. 

 

These contracts typically cover work performed over several months up to five years. These contracts may be modified or terminated at the convenience of the government and typically are subject to appropriation and allocation of the required funding on an annual basis. The revenue that we recognize pursuant to these contracts represents reimbursement by various U.S. Government entities that aid in the development of new technology. The applicable contracts generally provide that we may elect to retain ownership of inventions made in performing the work, subject to a non-exclusive license retained by the U.S. Government to use the inventions for government purposes. 

 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Contract funding may be based on either a fixed price or cost type award. Cost awards include cost, cost-plus fixed fee or cost-share arrangements. The amount of funding under each contract is determined based on cost estimates that include direct costs, plus an allocation for research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses and cost of capital expenses. The specific reimbursement provisions of the contracts, including the portion of our general and administrative expenses and other operating expenses that are reimbursed, vary by contract. Cost-plus funding is determined based on actual costs plus a fixed fee. For the cost-share contracts, based on the terms of the contract, the actual costs relating to activities we are to perform under the contract are divided between the U.S. Government and us. The U.S. Government’s cost share is then paid to us. The contracts typically require the submission of a written report that documents the results of the research, as well as some material deliverables. 

 

The revenue and expense classification for contract activities is based on the nature of the contract. For contracts where we anticipate that the U.S. Government funding will exceed our direct costs relating to the program over the life of the contract, funding is reported as contract revenue and all direct costs are reported as costs of contract revenue. For contracts under which we anticipate that direct costs of the activities subject to the contract will exceed the amounts to be funded over the life of the contract, costs are reported as research and development expenses and related funding is reported as an offset of those expenses. For the fiscal years ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002, U.S. Government funding represented 9%, 12% and 12% of total revenue, respectively. 

 

We generally must compete with other companies for funding awards from the U.S. Government. In certain cases, such as when the value of a U.S. Government contract exceeds $100,000 and when highly technical research is required, the U.S. Government issues a request for proposal (RFP). In a typical RFP, the U.S. Government requests a product or service and solicits proposals from prospective contractors on how they intend to carry out that request, and at what price. Proposals received in response to an RFP can be subject to negotiation after they have been submitted. Many U.S. Government contracts are awarded on a type of RFP called a broad agency announcement (BAA). In a BAA, the U.S. Government requests a broad range of research and development services. Contractors submit bids for research in any of the technical areas mentioned in the BAA. Then the U.S. Government may select winners of the awards and negotiate contracts with those parties. The U.S. Government uses many methods to select contractors to receive awards. Some of these methods include choosing vendors who offer products or services that provide the best value, lowest price and highest level of technology. We also may be the recipients of a sole source contract from the U.S. Government if the U.S. Government determines that we are the only viable source for the work to be performed. In this case, the U.S. Government would publish its intent to award a sole source contract to us, and if there are no viable challenges made to that publication, the U.S. Government might award the contract to us without a competitive bid process. 

 

In May 2004, the Army Research Laboratories (ARL) awarded us a contract through the Robert Morris Acquisition Center, providing for funding up to $15.9 million over five years. This contract focuses on the development of manufacturing technology for high-temperature high-power SiC semiconductor material and power devices for use in electric traction drive power components and associated power conditioning and control electronics for the next-generation of combat vehicles. The contract contemplates research regarding the manufacture, processing, and performance of high-temperature SiC high power devices for electric traction drive systems. Specifically, our research efforts under the contract will focus on improving the quality of SiC material (substrates and epi-layers) and the design, development, and operation of SiC power devices for high-temperature, high power motor drive applications. For the year ended June 27, 2004, we recorded $351,000 of revenue associated with this contract. 

 

Also in May 2004, through the ARL Robert Morris Acquisition Center we were awarded a contract providing up to $9.9 million of funding over five years. This contract focuses on the development of high-temperature SiC semiconductor high power devices and power modules for use in electric traction drive power components and associated power conditioning and control electronics for the next-generation of 

 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
combat vehicles. The contract also contemplates research regarding device development of SiC power devices and power modules for electric traction drive systems, including SiC power device and power module design, fabrication and operation at high-temperature and high power in motor drive power conditioning, control and power distribution applications. The overall goal of this program is to provide high-temperature power modules with a 1200 V, 600 A rating. For the year ended June 27, 2004, we recorded $161,000 of revenue associated with this contract. 

 

In June 2002, the Office of Naval Research (ONR) awarded us two contracts with a total value of approximately $14.4 million as part of the Wide Bandgap Semiconductor Technology Initiative of the Defense Advance Research Projects Agency (DARPA). The first contract provided for up to $8.8 million in U.S. Government funding over an 18-month period for work directed to microwave and related technologies. This contract focuses on the development of high quality four-inch semi-insulating substrates, SiC MESFET and GaN HEMT epitaxial processes on large diameter wafers, and studies correlating material advances with device performance. In December 2003, DARPA committed an additional $2.9 million to the program for a six-month extension, bringing its total funding commitment under the contract to $11.7 million. 

 

The second ONR/DARPA contract provided for up to $5.6 million in U.S. Government funding over an 18-month period for work directed to SiC high voltage, high power switching devices for high power conversion and distribution technology. This contract focuses on the development of low defect density four-inch, n-type 4H-SiC substrates, more uniform, thick SiC epitaxial processes, and power device development focused on high reliability, high voltage SiC PIN rectifiers and MOSFETs. In December 2003, DARPA committed an additional $1.9 million to the program for a six-month extension. In June 2004, DARPA awarded an expanded effort to the program, committing an additional $800,000. This additional funding brings the total funding commitment under the contract to $8.3 million. 

 

We may enter into a number of contracts for different projects with a single agency or enter into contracts addressing different parts of the same project with more than one agency. For example, we currently have several large contracts with the ONR and the Air Force Research Laboratories (AFRL). In July 2002, we were awarded U.S. Government contracts totaling $26.5 million, if fully funded, over a three-year period from ONR and AFRL for SiC MMIC process development. The U.S. Navy, the Missile Defense Agency and the Department of Defense’s Title III program jointly fund these contracts. Under our previously existing Title III contract with AFRL, the project added $3.2 million through a contract modification for additional tasks focused on improving yields of the three-inch diameter high purity semi-insulating SiC substrates to be used for MMIC devices. The remaining $23.3 million is being provided through the contract with ONR. The goal of this contract is to provide enhanced producibility of SiC materials, both substrates and epitaxy, and clean room processing, in support of high-power MMIC amplifiers used in military radar applications. The majority of the work is directed to yield enhancement and cost reduction for MMICs fabricated on three-inch diameter SiC wafers. In fiscal 2004, revenues under the specific contracts (DARPA, MMIC Producibility and AFRL) with the ONR, AFRL and ARL combined were approximately 4% of total revenue. 

 

Additionally, we were awarded with another contract in June 2002 funded by DARPA through the ARL Robert Morris Acquisition Center to pursue the development of UV LEDs and lasers for a variety of military communications and bio-threat detection applications under DARPA’s Semiconductor Ultraviolet Optical Sources (SUVOS) program. This DARPA SUVOS contract provides for up to $14.4 million in U.S. Government funding over a four-year period. In fiscal 2004, DARPA committed an additional $3.0 million toward this program, bringing the total funding commitment under the contract to $17.4 million. In fiscal 2004, this DARPA SUVOS contract accounted for approximately 2% of total revenue. 

 

The specific contracts mentioned above are all cost share arrangements. The contracts require us to conduct the research effort described in the statement of work section of the contract. The contracts also require that we pay a contractually agreed upon portion of the costs of the work with the U.S. Government 

 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
paying the balance. There are no milestones to be reached for payments from the U.S. Government. We invoice the U.S. Government monthly for their share of the costs of the work performed based on costs incurred for that month. 

 

Distributorship Agreement with Sumitomo Corporation 

 

In April 2002, we entered into a distributorship agreement with Sumitomo Corporation (Sumitomo), which was amended in March 2003, amended and restated in May 2004 and amended in July 2004. Under the agreement, as amended, Sumitomo became our strategic partner and is now the exclusive distributor of our LED and wafer products in Japan through fiscal 2007. Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the distributorship agreement requires Sumitomo to commit in advance to purchase a specified dollar value of our products during the next fiscal year. For fiscal year 2004, Sumitomo’s advance purchase commitment was approximately $100 million, and revenue recognized from Sumitomo was $101.8 million. For fiscal year 2005, Sumitomo’s current advance purchase commitment is approximately $160 million; however, Sumitomo’s purchase commitment may vary under certain circumstances subject to end customer demand and other terms and conditions. For example, the distributorship agreement provides that Sumitomo may decrease its advance purchase commitment and/or terminate the agreement if its inventory of Cree products reaches a specified level. If Sumitomo does not purchase at least half of its advance purchase commitment for any fiscal quarter as a result of this inventory limitation, we have the option of terminating the distributorship agreement. 

 

The distributorship agreement also requires us to establish two rolling reserves at the time we ship LED products to Sumitomo, each based upon a percentage of the total purchase price of the products. We defer revenue recognition on the amounts added to both rolling reserves each fiscal quarter. These reserves are used to reimburse Sumitomo for certain sales costs incurred in selling our products and for managing its inventory, up to the balance in these reserves. If Sumitomo makes a valid claim against these reserves, we write off or reduce the amount of the claim against the applicable reserve. Except to the extent Sumitomo makes a valid claim against the reserves, amounts added to these reserves during a fiscal quarter will expire on a rolling basis by at least the end of the second following fiscal quarter, and we recognize revenue equal to the expired amount at that time. 

 

Research and Development 

 

We invest significant resources in research and development aimed at improving our semiconductor materials and developing new device and production technology. Our core materials research is directed to improving the quality and diameter of our SiC and GaN substrates. We also are working to improve the quality of the SiC and nitride epitaxial materials we grow to produce devices and to improve device yields by reducing variability in our processes. These efforts are in addition to ongoing projects focused on brighter LED chips, high power packaged LEDs, higher power/higher linearity RF and microwave devices, near UV laser devices and higher power diodes/switches as discussed above. 

 

We recorded $36.9 million in fiscal 2004, $31.2 million in fiscal 2003 and $28.0 million in fiscal 2002 for direct expenditures relating to research and development activities. The amount of recorded expenditures is supplemented by funding received from our customers and the U.S. Government, in certain cases, which is recorded as a reduction in research and development expenditures. When we receive payments from our customers for sponsoring research and development programs, we offset those payments against direct research and development expenditures. In addition, when we receive payments from the U.S. Government under contracts where direct expenses of the contract are estimated to exceed the funding award over the life of the program, we offset the payment against reported research and development expenditures. In fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, customers funded zero, $500,000 and $9.0 million, respectively for programs that offset research and development costs. The majority of this funding was received from companies in which we have made investments. For example, an affiliate of Lighthouse Technologies, Limited (Lighthouse) in 

 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
which we have an investment, was our only source of customer funding in fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2002, Microvision, Inc. (Microvision), the Lighthouse affiliate and Xemod, Inc. (Xemod) funded $4.4 million, $3.0 million and $492,000, respectively, of our research and development. We held an investment in each of these companies at the time that they provided research and development funding to us. In addition, Spectrian, historically the largest customer for our Cree Microwave segment, also participated in funding our research and development programs for $1.1 million in fiscal 2002. When customers participate in funding our research and development programs, we record the amount funded as a reduction of research and development expenses. At this time, we do not expect funding for research and development during fiscal 2005 from these or any other customers or any third parties in which we invested. U.S. Government funding that offset costs included as research and development was zero, zero and $276,000 for fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 

 

Sales and Marketing 

 

We actively market our LED, wafer, RF, microwave and power products through targeted promotions, select advertising and attendance at trade shows. Our direct sales force and senior management work with customers around the world. The production of lamp and display products incorporating LED chips is concentrated among a relatively small number of LED packaging manufacturers. Our sales and marketing team is based in our Durham, North Carolina facility with additional sales support offices in Hong Kong and Tokyo, Japan. We also have a salesperson based in Taiwan. We believe that our sales in Asia have increased as a direct result of localizing our Asian sales presence. 

 

Supported by our Japan office, Sumitomo is our exclusive distribution partner for nitride LED chips and SiC and GaN wafers in Japan. We also use distributors to market our LED products in Hong Kong, China and Taiwan in coordination with our sales support office in Hong Kong and our salesperson based in Taiwan. We use a separate network of distributors and sales representatives to market our GaN materials, RF and microwave devices, power devices and high power packaged LED products in North America, Japan, Europe and Asia. We sell SiC crystal materials for use in gemstone applications directly to C&C under an exclusive supply agreement. 

 

Customers 

 

During fiscal 2004, revenues from Sumitomo (which represent sales to approximately 20 Japanese LED customers as well as a number of wafer customers) accounted for 33% of our total revenue. Sumitomo assists in managing customer relationships and imports, handles orders, distributes our products and manages accounts receivable for the Japanese customer base. For fiscal 2004, four of our top ten end customers were located in Japan and their sales, as well as sales to our other Japanese customers, are reported as sales to Sumitomo. Cree Japan’s sales team is actively involved with Sumitomo in the sales process to accounts in Japan. Our relationship with our end customers in Japan is critical to our future success. Sales to OSRAM Opto Semiconductors GmbH (OSRAM) and Agilent Technologies (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, (Agilent) during fiscal 2004 were 13% and 13%, of revenue, respectively. 

 

Sumitomo, OSRAM and Agilent were our only customers that comprised 10% or more of our revenue for fiscal 2004. In October 2003, we signed an agreement with OSRAM, which was amended in March 2004. Under the agreement, OSRAM committed to purchase at least 500 million LEDs through June 2005. The loss of OSRAM, Agilent or any of Sumitomo’s large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. Revenue from the U.S. Government, representing funding from several agencies, made up 9% of total revenue for fiscal 2004. As our U.S. Government contracts are with multiple agencies, the U.S. Government does not act as a single customer, and we do not regard it as such. During fiscal 2003, revenues from three customers, Sumitomo, OSRAM and Agilent were 24%, 21%, and 10%, of total revenue, respectively. Revenue from the U.S. Government, representing funding from several agencies, made up 12% of total revenue for fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2002, revenues from three customers, OSRAM, 

 

11 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Spectrian and Sumitomo, were 19%, 16% and 14%, of total revenue, respectively. Revenue from the U.S. Government, representing funding from several agencies, made up 12% of total revenue for fiscal 2002. Prior to fiscal 2003, sales to Spectrian, which was purchased in 2002 by Remec, Inc. (REMEC), were 99% of Cree Microwave’s revenue. In fiscal 2004, sales to Remec made up 43% of Cree Microwave sales. We continue to pursue new customers for our Cree Microwave business and have had some recent success on designs with our newer products serving the wireless infrastructure and mil-aero markets. Based upon conversations with our customer, we target sales to Remec to decline in fiscal 2005 and therefore new customer orders will be critical to continue to grow revenue for this segment. For further financial information about foreign and domestic sales, please see Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Matters,” to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 

 

Backlog 

 

As of June 27, 2004, we had a backlog of approximately $248.5 million, consisting of approximately $192.8 million of product orders and $55.7 million under research contracts signed with the U.S. Government, for which a portion of the contracted funds have not yet been appropriated. The backlog includes the full amount of Sumitomo’s purchase commitment for fiscal 2005, which may vary under certain circumstances subject to end customer demand and other terms and conditions described above under the caption “Distributorship Agreement with Sumitomo Corporation.” We estimate our entire backlog could be filled during fiscal 2005, with the exception of approximately $33.7 million in U.S. Government funded contracts. As of June 29, 2003, we had a backlog of approximately $152.5 million consisting of approximately $108.9 million of product orders and $43.6 million under research contracts signed with the U.S. Government, for which a portion of the contracted funds had not yet been appropriated. This backlog included the full amount of Sumitomo’s purchase commitment. Our backlog could be adversely affected if Sumitomo or other customers fail to honor their purchase commitments or reduce or cancel orders or if the U.S. Government exercises its rights to terminate the government contracts or does not appropriate and allocate all of the funding contemplated by the contracts. 

 

In May 2004, we amended and restated our existing distributorship agreement with Sumitomo extending the term of the agreement through 2007. For fiscal year 2005, Sumitomo’s current advance purchase commitment is approximately $160 million, subject to adjustment and cancellation provisions and end customer demand. The orders cover demand for our products in Japan and represent sales to over twenty LED packagers including Stanley Electric Co., Ltd. (Stanley), Citizen Electronics Co., Ltd. (Citizen), Sharp Corporation (Sharp) and Rohm Co., Ltd. (Rohm). In October 2003, we signed a purchase agreement with OSRAM, which was amended in March 2004. The agreement covers shipments through June 2005, but does not specify specific products to be purchased by OSRAM each quarter. Therefore, we only account for amounts set forth in purchase orders from OSRAM as firm backlog. As of June 27, 2004 we had approximately six weeks of orders from OSRAM as firm backlog. 

 

Sources of Raw Materials 

 

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components and equipment used in our products, including certain key materials and equipment used in our crystal growth, wafering, polishing, epitaxial deposition, device fabrication and device assembly processes. We generally purchase these limited source items pursuant to purchase orders and have limited guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. 

 

Competition 

 

Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with the evolving technology standards of the industries that we serve. These industries are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and changes in end-user and customer requirements. 

 

12 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
The evolving nature of these industries may render our existing or future products obsolete, noncompetitive or unmarketable. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 

LEDs 

 

Blue, Green and Near UV LED Chips.    The primary competition for our LED chip products comes from companies that manufacture and or sell nitride-based LED chips. We expect many LED competitors to substantially increase their capacity to manufacture LED chips during the next twelve months. We also consider Nichia Corporation (Nichia), which sells packaged LEDs and most often competes directly with our chip customers, to be a competitor. Nichia currently sells the majority of its packaged LED products to markets requiring white LEDs, which Nichia fabricates using its efficient phosphor solution for blue LEDs. We believe that Nichia currently has the largest market share for nitride-based LEDs based on conversations with our customers. We see an opportunity to improve our customers’ ability to compete with Nichia’s white LED products and increase our chip sales with our recently introduced XT-21 chip, based on reports from customers that they are able to produce a white LED with our XT-21 chip that is similar in output to Nichia’s white LED. However, this opportunity also depends upon our customers’ ability to source or develop efficient phosphor solutions for the conversion to white light that can compete with Nichia’s solution. 

 

Many Asia-based chip producers also produce blue, green and near UV LED products. They have been successful in securing new business, primarily in Asia for the blue keypad backlight for mobile appliances and other cost sensitive applications. Some of these Asia-based competitors offer chips with brightness similar to our existing high-brightness products. 

 

Our customers indicate that they base their nitride LED purchases on a combination of factors. These factors include price, performance, reliability, quality, usability and stability of supply, intellectual property, customer service and overall customer relationships. Based on conversations with our customers, we believe that our products have an advantage over our competitors’ chips in many of these areas and that we are more successful when end customers value a combination of these factors. The particular combination and importance of specific factors that drive customers’ purchasing decisions at any time varies, depending on market conditions, requirements for end user applications and demand for those applications. Overall, we believe that price and performance are the most significant factors to compete successfully in the nitride LED market and that our products are well positioned to meet the market demands. We continually strive to improve our competitive position by developing brighter and higher performance LED chips and focusing on lowering costs. For example, we target to migrate the majority of our LED production to three-inch wafers from two-inch wafers during fiscal 2005, which is intended to increase our LED production yield and lower our overall LED chip cost. 

 

High Power Packaged LEDs.    The market for power chip products and high power packaged lamps is currently limited to specialty lighting applications. Lumileds Lighting, LLC (Lumileds) currently is positioned as the leader in this market since they have been the only production supplier of high power packaged LEDs for the last few years. Lumileds sells high power packaged LEDs that compete indirectly with our target customers for power chip products and directly with our XLamp family of high power packaged lamps. Several other companies have announced intentions to enter this market with products designed to compete with our XLamp products. We are positioning our XLamp product to compete in this market based on price, performance and usability. 

 

SiC and GaN Materials Products 

 

The market for SiC wafers has become more competitive in recent years, as other companies have begun to offer SiC wafer products or have announced plans to do so. To our knowledge, none of these competitors currently offer SiC wafers that are being used for device production. We sell SiC wafers to 

 

13 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
OSRAM and Infineon, which compete with us in the LED and power diode markets, respectively. In addition to being a large customer of our LED chips, OSRAM, which licensed certain LED technology from us in 1995, currently is producing LEDs using nitride materials on SiC substrates for use in their packages. We are not aware of any other company who produces SiC materials for use in gemstones although we believe there are some companies pursuing research and development in this area. The market for bulk GaN wafers is becoming increasingly competitive as Sumitomo Electric and others are currently selling wafers to these markets. 

 

SiC-based Power Devices 

 

Our SiC-based power devices compete with similar devices offered by Infineon. There are also a number of other companies developing SiC-based power devices. Our products also compete with existing silicon-based power devices offered by a variety of manufacturers. 

 

RF and Microwave Transistors 

 

Currently, there are no companies offering products that compete directly with our SiC MESFET products and MMIC foundry service although a few companies have products under development. Although there are no direct competitors using SiC technology, our products face competition from existing silicon and GaAs-based products. We do not currently offer GaN microwave devices, but we are working to develop these products. In the GaN microwave area, there are a number of companies working to develop these products. 

 

The markets served by Cree Microwave’s LDMOS and bipolar products are highly competitive. Currently Motorola’s LDMOS business (which was recently spun out into Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.) dominates this marketplace, which we believe is due to the performance and pricing of its products in comparison to our products and others currently available in the market. 

 

Near UV Laser Diodes 

 

We currently do not offer any laser products commercially. The major competitors in the near UV laser market are Nichia and Sony Corporation, as well as a number of other companies that have announced development activities in this area. The market for blue laser products is just beginning to emerge. In addition to our development efforts, there are also a number of companies working on developing near UV laser diodes. 

 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

 

We seek to protect our proprietary technology by applying for patents where appropriate and in other cases by preserving the technology and related know-how and information as trade secrets. We have also from time to time acquired, through license grants or assignments, rights to patents on inventions originally developed by others. As of July 15, 2004, we owned or held exclusive rights licensed under a total of 251 issued U.S. patents, subject in some cases to non-exclusive license rights held by third parties. These patents expire between 2007 and 2022. We jointly own four of these patents with third parties. Thirty-six of these patents relate primarily to our Cree Microwave segment. In addition, we own or hold exclusive license rights under corresponding patents and patent applications in various foreign countries. 

 

Among the patent licenses we hold are exclusive licenses granted by North Carolina State University (NCSU) to its U.S. and corresponding foreign patents and patent applications that relate to SiC materials and device technology and to GaN growth technology. These licenses include rights under patents and patent applications relating to processes for growing single crystal SiC and low defect GaN materials. The licenses are worldwide, exclusive licenses to manufacture, use and sell products and processes covered by the claims 

 

14 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
of patents issued on applications filed by NCSU relating to the licensed inventions. The U.S. Government holds non-exclusive licenses from us to use for government purposes certain of our inventions that were developed under contracts with them. The licenses relating to the growth of bulk single crystal SiC and to other SiC materials and device technology are fully-paid, while the licenses relating to growth of low defect GaN materials require us to pay NCSU royalties on sales of products made using the licensed processes. 

 

The patents that we have licensed from NCSU relating to bulk SiC growth expire beginning in 2007, and we may face increased competition in the market for SiC materials as these patents expire. In addition, in the event our licenses to the U.S. patents owned by NCSU relating to SiC growth were to be terminated under the terms of our license agreement, we could potentially be enjoined from practicing the patented process. In that event the business of our entire Cree segment could be disrupted since the segment is critically dependent on our ability to manufacture bulk single crystal SiC material. Similarly, if our license to the patents relating to growth of low defect GaN materials were to be terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce GaN-based laser diodes or other future products we expect to manufacture using the patented processes. 

 

We also have entered into license agreements with the licensing agencies of other universities, and with other companies, under which we have obtained exclusive or non-exclusive rights to practice inventions claimed in various patents and applications issued or pending in the U.S. and other foreign countries. We do not believe the financial obligations under any of these agreements, or the loss of the licensed rights under any of these agreements, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. These license agreements include a patent cross-license agreement covering GaN-based optoelectronic technology that we entered into with Nichia in November 2002 in connection with a settlement of patent and related litigation then pending between the parties in the United States and Japan. These license agreements also include license rights granted to us by the Trustees of Boston University (Boston University) under certain U.S. patents and corresponding foreign patents and patent applications which relate to the manufacture of certain GaN-based structures on sapphire and other substrates. The license agreement with Boston University grants us an exclusive, worldwide royalty-bearing license under these patents and patent applications, subject to royalty payments and other obligations under the license agreement. Termination of the license to this patent by Boston University would end our right to assert the patent against future infringements. 

 

For proprietary technology that is not patented or otherwise published, we seek to protect the technology and related know-how and information as trade secrets and to maintain it in confidence through appropriate non-disclosure agreements with employees and others to whom the information is disclosed. There can be no assurance that these agreements will provide meaningful protection against unauthorized disclosure or use of our confidential information or that our proprietary technology and know-how will not otherwise become known or independently discovered by others. We also rely upon other intellectual property rights such as trademarks and copyright where appropriate. 

 

Environmental Regulation 

 

We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local provisions enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These include statutory and regulatory provisions under which we are responsible for the management of hazardous materials we use and the disposition of hazardous wastes resulting from our manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with such provisions, whether intentional or inadvertent, could result in fines and other liabilities to the government or third parties, injunctions requiring us to suspend or curtail operations or other remedies, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 

15 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Employees 

 

As of June 27, 2004, we employed 1,235 people, consisting of regular full time and temporary employees, including 965 in manufacturing operations, 196 in research and development and 74 in sales and general administration. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or subject to collective bargaining agreements. 

 

Available Information 

 

We maintain a website at the address www.cree.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports may be accessed by following the link under “News & Investor—SEC Filings” on our website. 
