Item 1. Business

INTRODUCTION
------------

Cree,  Inc.,  a  North  Carolina   corporation,   was  established  in  1987  to
commercialize silicon carbide, or SiC, semiconductor wafers and devices.  Today,
we are the world leader in developing and manufacturing  compound  semiconductor
materials  and  electronic  devices  made  from  SiC.  SiC-based  devices  offer
significant  advantages  over  competing  products  made from  silicon,  gallium
arsenide,  sapphire and other materials for certain electronic applications.  We
use our compound semiconductor technology to make enabling products such as blue
and green light  emitting  diodes,  or LEDs.  We sell our LEDs to customers  who
package  them  for use in  applications  such  as  backlighting  for  automotive
dashboards  and  automotive  interior  lighting,  wireless  handsets  and  other
consumer  products.  Other  applications for our LEDs include indoor and outdoor
full color displays,  such as video boards in indoor arenas and outdoor stadiums
or  billboards  and message  signs.  Our LEDs are also used in traffic  signals,
indicator  lights for  consumer or  industrial  equipment  and  miniature  white
lights.  We have developed several  generations of LED products,  including high
performance  LEDs with increased  brightness  over our previous diodes and small
chip products, which consume less power. Our SiC-based blue and green LEDs offer
benefits  to our  customers  over  competing  products,  including  an  industry
standard chip structure,  improved resistance to electrostatic discharge,  small
size and low unit price. We also manufacture SiC materials  products,  including
SiC wafers,  that we sell for use in manufacturing  and for research directed to
optoelectronics,  microwave and power applications, and SiC crystals used in the
production of unique gemstones.

We have new product  initiatives  for RF and microwave  transistors and recently
began  shipping  limited  quantities  of these  devices.  We believe  that these
products  may  prove  useful  in a  variety  of  applications,  including  power
amplifiers for wireless  infrastructure,  home-based  multi-channel  multi-point
subscriber units, digital broadcast  applications and solid state radar. We also
have new product  initiatives  aimed at developing  high power devices for power
conversion  and  switching  uses and blue laser  diodes for use in  high-density
digital versatile disk, or DVD, players and other optical storage  applications.
We are also  developing  LEDs with a higher  luminous  efficiency  to expand our
existing  family of devices.  We believe if certain  significant  milestones are
achieved  these LED chip  products  currently  in  development  may  enable  our
customers to produce white lamps that could compete in the conventional lighting
market.

BACKGROUND
----------

Most semiconductor  devices are fabricated on wafers made from silicon crystals.
Silicon evolved as the dominant  semiconductor material because it is relatively
easy to grow into large,  single crystals and is suitable for  fabricating  many
electronic devices.  Alternative  materials,  such as gallium arsenide, or GaAs,
have emerged to enable the fabrication of new devices with  characteristics that
could not be obtained using silicon, including certain RF, microwave, LED, laser
and other solid state devices.  However,  GaAs,  silicon and other  commercially
available   semiconductor   materials  have  certain   physical  and  electronic
characteristics  that  limit  their  usefulness  in  certain  applications.  For
example, silicon and GaAs-based semiconductors have not demonstrated the ability
to fabricate short wavelength  optoelectronic  devices.  In addition,  the power
handling  capabilities of silicon and GaAs-based microwave transistors can limit
the power and  performance  of  microwave  systems used in many

                                      -3-

<PAGE>
commercial and military  applications.  SiC can deliver five times the power per
single device than silicon or GaAs based devices,  therefore, SiC based wireless
systems may use fewer transistors per base station with less complex  circuitry,
which may  result in a lower  system  cost.  Furthermore,  few  silicon  or GaAs
devices can operate  effectively at temperatures  above 400 degrees  Fahrenheit.
This is a significant  limitation for applications  such as advanced  electronic
systems for high power electric motors, jet engines and satellites.

Substantial research and development efforts have been undertaken to explore the
properties  of other  potential  semiconductor  materials.  These  efforts  have
identified few candidate materials that are capable of being grown as low defect
single  crystals,  a requirement in the production of most  semiconductors.  SiC
also possesses  physical and electronic  properties that  meaningfully  increase
device  performance  over products  fabricated from  semiconductor  materials in
general use. Of the few potential  candidates,  the properties of SiC make it an
excellent material for extending existing  semiconductor device technology where
high power, high temperature or short wavelengths are important for performance.

SiC OVERVIEW
------------

SiC has many  physical  characteristics  that make it difficult to produce.  For
example, in a typical  semiconductor  manufacturing  process,  the semiconductor
material is grown in single crystal form and sliced into wafers.  The wafers are
then  polished  and  chemically  etched,  coated  with  thin  crystalline  films
containing controlled levels of impurities and fabricated into devices.  Because
SiC can form many  different  atomic  arrangements  and must be grown at process
temperatures  above 3,500  degrees  Fahrenheit,  it is  difficult  to grow large
single  crystals  that are  homogeneous  in  structure.  In  addition,  the high
temperatures  required to grow SiC make the  control of  impurity  levels in SiC
crystals and thin films  difficult.  "Micropipes,"  or small diameter holes, may
appear in the crystals during their growth,  affecting the electrical  integrity
of the wafer and  reducing  the  usability  of portions of the wafer for certain
applications. Slicing and polishing SiC wafers is also hindered by the intrinsic
hardness of the material.  Similarly, its inherent chemical resistance makes SiC
a difficult  material to etch. The  characteristics  discussed below distinguish
SiC from conventional silicon and GaAs-based semiconductor materials,  resulting
in significant advantages if production hurdles can be overcome:

WIDE  ENERGY  BANDGAP.  Bandgap  is the amount of energy  required  to ionize an
electron from the valence band to the  conduction  band.  SiC is classified as a
"wide bandgap" semiconductor material,  meaning that more energy is required for
ionization.  Electronic  devices  made  from  this  material  can  operate  more
efficiently and at much higher  temperatures than devices made from other common
semiconductor materials.

HIGH BREAKDOWN  ELECTRIC FIELD. The "breakdown  electric field" is the amount of
voltage per unit distance  that a material can  withstand and still  effectively
operate as a  semiconductor  device.  SiC has a much higher  breakdown  electric
field than silicon or GaAs. This characteristic allows SiC devices to operate at
much higher  voltage  levels.  Additionally,  it allows SiC power  devices to be
significantly  smaller  while  carrying the same as or greater power levels than
comparable silicon and GaAs-based devices.

HIGH THERMAL  CONDUCTIVITY.  SiC is an excellent thermal  conductor  compared to
other  commercially  available  semiconductor  materials.  This feature  enables
SiC-based devices to operate at high power levels and still dissipate the excess
heat generated.

                                      -4-

<PAGE>
HIGH SATURATED  ELECTRON  DRIFT  VELOCITY.  SiC has a "saturated  electron drift
velocity"  higher than that of silicon or GaAs.  The  saturated  electron  drift
velocity is the maximum speed at which  electrons can travel through a material.
This  characteristic,  combined with a high breakdown electric field, allows the
fabrication of SiC-based  microwave  transistors  that operate at  significantly
higher power levels than current silicon and GaAs-based devices.

ROBUST  MATERIAL.  SiC has an  extremely  high  melting  point and is one of the
hardest known materials in the world. As a result, SiC can withstand much higher
electrical pulses and is much more radiation-resistant than silicon or GaAs. SiC
is also  extremely  resistant  to  chemical  breakdown  and can operate in harsh
environments.

GEMOLOGICAL  APPEAL. In the gemstone industry,  SiC is known as moissanite.  Its
high refractive index and dispersion give it "diamond-like"  sparkle or fire. In
addition,  its hardness allows superior faceting and wear resistance compared to
many gemstone materials.

THE CREE SOLUTION
-----------------

Some of the same physical  characteristics  that make SiC an excellent  material
for certain semiconductor  applications also make the material very difficult to
produce.  Through our 13 years of development and manufacturing  experience,  we
have succeeded in overcoming many of the difficulties involved in processing SiC
for commercial  use. We introduced our first product in October 1989 and believe
we are currently the leading  volume  producer of SiC wafers and SiC-based  blue
and green LED  products in the world.  We believe that our  proprietary  process
techniques  and the inherent  attributes  of SiC give our  products  significant
advantages  over  competing  products  for certain  electronic  and  gemological
applications. These advantages include:

BLUE AND GREEN LIGHT  EMISSION.  We produce high  efficiency blue and green LEDs
using gallium nitride, or GaN, a wide bandgap material, and other nitrides grown
on SiC  substrates.  Other  manufacturers  of  nitride-based  LEDs currently use
sapphire substrates.  The conductive  properties of SiC enable us to fabricate a
simpler,  industry  standard  sized LED chip that is smaller  than LEDs grown on
competing sapphire substrates. We believe the industry standard size of our chip
affords our customers  more  flexibility  in gaining design wins and our smaller
chip  size  enables  our  product  to be  offered  for a lower  cost per chip in
comparison  to  sapphire-based   products  currently  available.   We  are  also
developing LEDs with higher  luminous  efficiency that may allow our products to
better  compete  with  the  brightness  offered  from  sapphire-based  products.
Sapphire-based  products  currently offer a higher  brightness than our existing
LED products.  We are also working to develop highly efficient  near-ultraviolet
LED chips that may  eventually  be used by our  customers to produce white lamps
that can compete with conventional  lighting products for certain  applications.
We have also  demonstrated  in the laboratory and are continuing  development of
nitride-based  blue laser diodes grown on SiC. The  principal  advantages of SiC
over other substrate materials for blue laser diodes are its high electrical and
thermal  conductivity  and its ability to be  cleaved,  providing  an  excellent
surface for laser light emission.

ENABLING  SUBSTRATE  PROPERTIES.  The inherent  attributes of SiC as a substrate
enable researchers to work on developing new optoelectronic, microwave and power
devices that offer  significant  advantages  over  competing  products and which
could  not  be  produced  as  effectively  on  other  substrate  materials.   We
manufacture  SiC  wafers  for  both  internal  use  and  for  sale  to  external
development  programs  to further  new  product  development.  We also sell some
wafers to Osram OS for the  production  of LED  products.  In October  1999,  we
introduced a larger  three-inch  wafer to production  for research  purposes and
demonstrated a four-inch  prototype  wafer.

                                      -5-
<PAGE>
GEMSTONE  MATERIAL  PROPERTIES.  We  manufacture  SiC crystals  that are used to
produce moissanite gemstones.  The combination of SiC's optical properties (high
refractive  index and  dispersion)  and robust  material  properties  give these
gemstones both  diamond-like  sparkle or fire and hardness  characteristics.  We
continue to develop larger and higher quality SiC crystals for this application.

HIGH  POWER  RF  AND  MICROWAVE  OPERATIONS.  We  have  demonstrated  SiC RF and
microwave  transistors  that can operate at much higher voltages than silicon or
GaAs because of SiC's high breakdown electric field,  allowing much higher power
operation  at high  frequencies.  We believe our higher  power SiC devices  will
enable the design and  manufacture  of SiC-based RF and  microwave  transmitters
with  less  circuit  complexity  and  higher  total  output  power.  These  same
advantages exist for microwave  devices made using GaN on SiC substrates,  which
can also operate at much higher  frequencies than SiC-only devices.  We recently
began shipping limited quantities of SiC RF devices that can be used in wireless
infrastructure  applications such as cellular base station transmission systems.
We believe  that SiC  devices  offer  certain  advantages  for RF and  microwave
applications  in comparison to silicon and GaAs devices,  including  using fewer
devices for a similar  range of  frequency,  superior  linearity  for  digitally
modulated carrier  applications  which results in less distortion to the signal,
superior efficiency,  and the ability to operate at higher temperatures.  We are
continuing  development  of  additional  RF and  microwave  devices  for  use in
wireless infrastructure and other commercial and defense-related applications.

HIGH POWER,  HIGH  VOLTAGE  OPERATION.  We are  developing  SiC power diodes and
switches that are able to operate at higher power  densities than currently used
semiconductor  materials because of the much higher breakdown  electric field of
SiC. In addition,  we believe that our SiC power devices will be able to operate
with lower  resistive  losses and lower  switching  losses  than those made with
silicon or GaAs.

PRODUCTS
--------

All of our current products are based on our SiC technology. The following chart
illustrates  our existing  products and existing and potential  applications  of
these products by our customers and their end users:

      PRODUCT                 EXISTING AND POTENTIAL USER APPLICATIONS
      -------                 ----------------------------------------

      Blue and green LEDs     o Backlighting in applications such as automotive
                                dashboards and interior lighting, wireless hand-
                                sets and other lighting applications
                              o Large indoor full color displays,  such as arena
                                video screens
                              o Large outdoor full color displays
                              o White light products to replace miniature incan-
                                descent bulbs,  such as those used in automobile
                                map lights and other lighting applications
                              o Traffic signals
                              o Indicator  lights  used for consumer, office and
                                other equipment
      Wafer Products          o Manufacture of LEDs
                              o Research  and development for new  semiconductor
                                devices

                                       -6-

<PAGE>
      SiC crystals            o Gemstones
      RF transistors and      o Power  amplifier  systems  for  wireless  infra-
      amplifiers                structure, such as base stations, wireless local
                                loop and multi-channel, multi-point distribution
                                system base station and subscriber sites
                              o Digital broadcast systems
                              o Solid-state radar systems
                              o Military communications systems

BLUE AND GREEN LEDs

LEDs are solid-state chips used in miniature lamps in everyday applications such
as indicator lights on printers,  computers and other equipment.  LEDs generally
offer substantial  advantages over small  incandescent  bulbs,  including longer
life,  lower  maintenance  cost  and  energy  consumption,   and  smaller  space
requirements.  Groups  of LEDs  can  make up  single  or  multicolor  electronic
displays. Since the introduction of our first blue SiC-only LED product in 1989,
we have developed several generations of LED products,  including blue and green
LEDs using nitride materials on SiC substrates,  a more robust conductive buffer
chip that is easier to build into lamps,  higher brightness products and a small
size low power consumption  diode. All of these products have a lower unit price
than competing  products.  We believe that LEDs made from SiC  substrates  offer
important benefits over those made from the sapphire  substrates  presently used
by our competitors, including:

     o an industry standard vertical chip structure requiring a single wire bond
       that permits faster LED assembly and reduced  cost;
     o a small chip size;
     o improved resistance to electrostatic discharge, or ESD, which reduces the
       cost, engineering effort and time to qualify  LEDs at customer production
       sites; and
     o a lower-priced outdoor-capable product.

Presently, our LED chips are used for backlighting purposes in applications such
as automotive  dashboards,  interior  automotive  lighting,  and liquid  crystal
display or LCD,  including  wireless  handsets and other consumer  products.  In
addition, they are used in office equipment indicator lighting, full color video
display  technology,  such as arena video boards,  billboards and moving message
advertising  and  informational  signs.  Our standard  brightness  LED products,
offered in blue wavelengths only, are primarily used in indoor applications.  In
September 1998, we introduced  brighter,  higher-priced blue and green LEDs that
offer  a  lower  cost  alternative  to  competing   products  made  on  sapphire
substrates. These products increased brightness up to 300% over our standard LED
products.  These higher  brightness  parts are used by our  customers to produce
packaged components marketed for backlighting  applications  requiring low power
consumption,  such as LCDs for wireless handsets and consumer  products,  and in
traffic signals and outdoor full-color display  applications where brightness is
critical.

We also offer a product line within our blue LED products that our customers use
in  manufacturing  solid-state  LED components that emit white light. By passing
blue or near ultraviolet LED output through certain conversion materials such as
phosphors  or  polymers,  blue  light may be  converted  into  white  light.  We
currently sell blue LED chips to customers who produce packaged  components that
emit white light.  Commercial  products  incorporating our chips for white light
conversion  include  backlighting  applications  for  automobile  dashboards and
instrumentation  and LCD backlighting for

                                      -7-

<PAGE>
wireless  handsets.  Other  applications for white light LEDs include  miniature
incandescent  lighting,  such as map lights,  automobile  trunk lights and small
flashlights.

In June 2000,  we  announced  the  introduction  of a new  smaller  chip that is
available at standard and high brightness  levels in blue and in high brightness
levels  for  green.  This  product  costs  less and uses 50% less power than our
larger  sized  chips.  We are  targeting  this  product to the low cost  handset
market.

We are focusing current  development efforts on further improving the brightness
of our high brightness  LEDs. We believe that increased  brightness is necessary
to effectively compete against LEDs fabricated on sapphire substrates, which are
presently brighter than our high brightness products, and may eventually lead to
products marketed for commercial lighting applications. LED products represented
63%, 49%, and 43% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 25, 2000,  June
27, 1999, and June 28, 1998, respectively.

MATERIALS PRODUCTS

We  manufacture  SiC wafers for sale to  corporate,  government  and  university
programs that use SiC as the basis for research in optoelectronic, microwave and
high power  devices.  Each order may be sold as a bare  wafer or  customized  by
adding epitaxial films,  depending upon the nature of the customer's development
program.  For the past several  years,  we have worked to improve the quality of
our wafers while  increasing their size. In October 1999, we released a low-cost
two-inch wafer targeted as an  alternative to sapphire  substrates  used by many
researchers in the  optoelectronics  field. In the same month, we introduced our
first three-inch wafer for sale to the research community.

Single  crystalline  SiC  has  characteristics  that  are  similar  to  diamond,
including properties relating to hardness and brilliance.  Through a proprietary
process,  we manufacture SiC crystals in near colorless form for use in gemstone
applications.  We sell SiC  crystals  directly  to Charles & Colvard,  or C&C, a
company  founded to develop  gemstone  products from SiC crystals.  C&C cuts and
facets  the  SiC  crystals  to  fabricate  diamond-like  gemstones  targeted  at
customers who desire  affordable  high quality  jewelry.  In December  1999, C&C
announced lower sales revenue and higher  inventory  levels than  anticipated as
well as the initiation of a new marketing campaign for its gemstone products. As
a  result,  we  anticipate  that  sales to C&C will  continue  to  decline  as a
percentage  of our business in fiscal 2001.  Future  demand also is dependent on
C&C's ability to cut, facet and effectively market its gemstone products.  Wafer
and other material products  represented 26%, 37% and 31% of our revenue for the
fiscal  years  ended  June  25,  2000,   June  27,  1999,  and  June  28,  1998,
respectively.

RF AND MICROWAVE TRANSISTORS

In June 1999,  we  announced  the first of a planned  line of  SiC-based  RF and
microwave transistor  products.  Samples of this product were shipped throughout
fiscal 2000. In June 2000, the first 10-watt  transistor  products were released
to production  and became  available to customers in limited  quantities.  These
products include a complete,  self-biased broadband power amplifier covering 100
megahertz  to 1  gigahertz  as well as  pre-matched  transistors  for  broadband
wireless access bands up to 3.7 gigahertz. We believe that these products can be
used  in  a  variety  of  power  amplifier   applications,   including  wireless
infrastructure,  home-based  subscriber  units,  cable TV and digital  broadcast
applications.  At this time we are  shipping  only limited  quantities  of these
products. Revenue growth from sales of these devices is dependent on the results
of customer  evaluations  of the first SiC RF products  and whether the products
are designed into customer applications.

                                      -8-

<PAGE>
PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
--------------------------

The following chart illustrates the potential user applications for each area of
current product development:

      PRODUCT CATEGORY                  POTENTIAL USER APPLICATIONS
      ----------------                  ---------------------------

      RF and microwave devices          o Power  amplifier systems  for wireless
                                          applications,  such as  base stations,
                                          wireless local loop and multi-channel,
                                          multi-point  distribution system base
                                          station and subscriber sites
                                        o Amplifiers for CATV
                                        o Digital broadcast systems
                                        o Solid-state radar systems
      Power devices                     o Industrial motor controls
                                        o Electric vehicles
                                        o High voltage power supplies
                                        o Lighting ballasts
                                        o Factory robotics
                                        o Locomotive applications
                                        o Solid-state power transmission
      Blue and ultraviolet  lasers      o High density optical storage, such as
                                          DVDs
      LEDs with higher lumenous         o Premium outdoor display signs
       efficiency                       o Products for the conventional lighting
                                          market

RF AND MICROWAVE DEVICES

We are currently  developing  SiC-based high power  transistors  that operate at
radio and microwave frequencies. We believe these devices will have applications
in  wireless  base  stations,  high  power  solid-state  broadcast  systems  for
television and radio and radar search and detection  equipment.  These SiC-based
devices are targeted for frequencies from 30 megahertz to 4 gigahertz, including
third  generation,  or 3G transmitter site networks.  We believe that future SiC
transistors in development, with higher output power per transistor than current
silicon  and  GaAs-based  devices,  will  allow  wireless  systems  to use fewer
transistors  per base  station,  resulting  in less  complex  circuitry,  higher
linearity and lower cost. New higher power devices are targeted for introduction
in  fiscal  2001 on a  sample  basis.  We have  also  demonstrated  50  watts of
continuous  wave power at 2 gigahertz in a complete  amplifier from a single SiC
transistor.

We are also developing  GaN-based  microwave  transistors on SiC substrates that
are  targeted  for  higher  frequency  applications  (10  to 30  gigahertz).  We
previously  reported the  demonstration  of GaN on SiC transistors that operated
with an output  power of 40 watts at 10  gigahertz  which we  believe  to be the
highest  publicly  reported  pulsed  power  output  for a single  device at this
frequency.  We also  reported  a record  high  power  density  of 9.8  watts per
millimeter, continuous wave, at 8.2 gigahertz on smaller GaN devices. This power
density is higher  than that  achieved  with  equivalent  silicon or  GaAs-based
devices. We do not anticipate that a commercial device capable of emitting power
at this level will be available in the near term.

                                      -9-


<PAGE>
POWER DEVICES

We are developing  prototype  high power devices that have many potential  uses.
Such devices could be employed in applications  involving power  conditioning as
well as power  switching.  SiC-based  power devices have the potential to handle
significantly  higher power  densities than existing  silicon-based  devices and
operate  at  significantly   higher  temperatures  and  voltages  with  superior
switching  capabilities,  yielding  power  savings  due  to  higher  efficiency.
Potential  applications  include power drive  components for electric  vehicles,
lighting ballast  components,  industrial motor controls and power  conditioning
for high voltage  power  transmission.  In early fiscal 1999,  we entered into a
three-year project with Kansai Electric Power Company,  one of the largest power
companies in the world,  for  development of SiC-based  devices for use in power
transmission networks. Under this program, we recently demonstrated a 12 kV high
efficiency  SiC rectifier for use in electric power  switching.  We believe this
voltage  level was higher than any  previously  reported for a single  rectifier
device. We do not anticipate that a commercial device capable of switching power
at this voltage level will be available in the near term.

BLUE AND NEAR ULTRAVIOLET LASER DIODES

We  continue  to focus on the  development  of blue and near  ultraviolet  laser
diodes. SiC's inherent  attributes,  including its natural cleavability and high
thermal conductivity, make it an excellent substrate material for development of
such short wavelength laser diodes.  The storage capacity of optical disk drives
can be increased  significantly  by utilizing a laser diode  capable of emitting
shorter  wavelength  light. We have demonstrated in the laboratory a short-lived
blue laser diode, fabricated from nitride materials deposited on SiC substrates,
which has a shorter  wavelength  than that of the red or infrared lasers used in
applications  today. We believe that the shorter  wavelength of blue light could
potentially  result  in  storage  capacity  for  optical  disk  drives  that  is
significantly  greater  than the capacity  permitted  by red light.  Substantial
research  and  development  work is needed for us to produce a short  wavelength
laser suitable for consumer applications. In May 1999 we entered into a one-year
development  agreement  with  Microvision,  Inc.,  or  Microvision,  under which
Microvision  provided $2.6 million in funding for us to conduct research in edge
emitting LEDs and laser diodes. In April 2000, the agreement was extended for an
additional two years with Microvision providing funding of $4.5 million and $5.5
million in the first and second years of the program, respectively.

LEDs WITH HIGHER LUMINOUS EFFICIENCY

In May 2000, we acquired  Nitres,  Inc., (now a wholly owned subsidiary known as
Cree  Lighting  Company,  or Cree  Lighting)  with  operations  based in Goleta,
California.  Cree Lighting is engaged in the  development  of new LED device and
manufacturing  technology,  with the goal of developing  higher  efficiency  LED
technology  necessary  for LEDs to compete  with  incandescent  and  fluorescent
lighting  technology  for  conventional  lighting  markets.  In July 2000,  Cree
Lighting  demonstrated a near ultraviolet LED made using nitride  materials on a
sapphire  substrate  with a  power  output  of 17 mW and  28%  external  quantum
efficiency.  This is the highest  known  external  quantum  efficiency  publicly
reported for an LED in the UV-to-blue  portion of the wavelength  spectrum.  Our
goal is to begin  production of products  using this new  development  in fiscal
2001.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACT FUNDING
---------------------------

We derive a portion of our revenue with funding from research contracts with the
U.S.  Government.  For the fiscal years ended June 25,  2000,  June 27, 1999 and
June 28, 1998, government funding represented

                                      -10-

<PAGE>
11%, 14% and 21% of total revenue, respectively. These contracts typically cover
work  performed over several  months up to three years.  These  contracts may be
modified or  terminated  at the  convenience  of the  government.  The contracts
generally  provide that we may elect to obtain title to  inventions  made in the
course of research,  with the  government  retaining a  nonexclusive  license to
practice such inventions for government purposes.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
------------------------

We invest  significant  resources in research and development aimed at improving
our semiconductor materials and developing new device and production technology.
Our core SiC  materials  research  is  directed  to  improving  the  quality and
diameter of our SiC  substrates.  We are also  working to improve the quality of
the SiC and  nitride  epitaxial  materials  we grow to  produce  devices  and to
improve device yields by reducing variability in our processes.

We spent $20.0  million in fiscal  2000,  $12.1  million in fiscal 1999 and $9.9
million  in  fiscal  1998 for  direct  expenditures  relating  to  research  and
development  activities.  Off-setting  these  expenditures were $12.7 million in
fiscal 2000, $9.0 million in fiscal 1999 and $9.7 million in fiscal 1998 of U.S.
Government funding for direct and indirect research and development expenses. In
addition,  certain customers have also sponsored research  activities related to
the development of new products.  Customers  contributed  $5.5 million in fiscal
2000,  $4.5  million in fiscal 1999 and $ 3.5 million in fiscal 1998 towards our
product research and development activities.

SALES AND MARKETING
-------------------

We  actively  market  our wafer and  optoelectronic  products  through  targeted
mailings,  telemarketing,  select  advertising and attendance at trade shows. We
generally use an executive sales approach,  relying predominantly on the efforts
of senior management and a small direct sales staff for worldwide product sales.
We believe that this approach is preferable in view of our current customer base
and product mix,  particularly since the production of lamp and display products
incorporating  LED chips is  concentrated  among a  relatively  small  number of
manufacturers.  However, we depart from this approach for sales to certain Asian
countries.  In Japan,  we market our LED  products  and SiC wafers  through  our
distributors Sumitomo Corporation, or Sumitomo, and Shin-Etsu Handotai Co. Ltd.,
or Shin-Etsu.  We also use sales  representatives  to market our LED products in
Hong Kong, China,  Taiwan and South Korea. We sell SiC crystal materials for use
in gemstone applications directly to C&C under an exclusive supply agreement. We
are using both direct sales and sales  representative  arrangements to market RF
products. We have engaged nine representatives for our RF products in the United
States. We have not yet engaged sales representatives or made other distribution
arrangements for our RF products outside the United States.

CUSTOMERS
---------

During  fiscal  2000,  revenues  from three  customers-  Siemens AG, or Siemens,
Sumitomo and C&C each accounted for more than 10% of total revenue. For the year
ended June 27,  1999,  and June 28,  1998,  revenue  from  Siemens,  C&C and the
Department  of Defense each  accounted for more than 10% of total  revenue.  For
financial  information  about  foreign and  domestic  sales,  please see Note 2,
"Summary of  Significant  Accounting  Policies"  to our  consolidated  financial
statements included in Item 8 of this report.

                                      -11-
<PAGE>
BACKLOG
-------

As of June 25,  2000,  we had a firm  backlog  of  approximately  $76.5  million
consisting of  approximately  $55.1 million of product  orders and $21.4 million
under research contracts signed with the U.S.  Government,  a portion which have
not yet  been  appropriated.  This  compares  to a firm  backlog  level of $42.3
million as of June 27, 1999, which consisted of  approximately  $25.6 million of
product orders and approximately $16.7 million of research contracts signed with
the U.S. Government. We believe the entire backlog could be filled during fiscal
2001, with the exception of approximately $9.3 million in U.S. government funded
contracts.

MANUFACTURING
-------------

Our products are manufactured in a six-part process, which includes: SiC crystal
growth, wafer slicing, polishing, epitaxial deposition, fabrication, and testing
and  packaging.  SiC crystals  are grown using a  proprietary  high  temperature
process  designed  to produce  uniform  crystals in a single  crystalline  form.
Crystals used for moissanite  gemstones exit the  manufacturing  process at this
stage.  Crystals used for other products are then sliced into wafers. The wafers
are polished and then processed using our epitaxial deposition processes,  which
require that we grow thin layers of SiC,  GaN or other  material on the polished
wafer,  depending  on the  nature  of the  device  under  production.  SiC wafer
products may leave the manufacturing  process either after polishing or epitaxy.
Following epitaxy,  LED and RF chips are fabricated in a clean room environment.
The final steps include  testing and packaging for shipment to the customer.  In
manufacturing  our products we depend  substantially on our  custom-manufactured
equipment and systems,  some of which are  manufactured  internally  and some of
which we acquire from third parties and customize ourselves.

SOURCES OF RAW MATERIALS
------------------------

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components
and equipment used in our SiC products and LEDs, including certain key materials
and  equipment  used  in our  crystal  growth,  wafering,  polishing,  epitaxial
deposition,  device fabrication and device test processes. We generally purchase
these limited  source items  pursuant to purchase  orders and have no guaranteed
supply arrangements with our suppliers.  In addition,  the availability of these
materials, components and equipment to us is dependent in part on our ability to
provide our suppliers  with accurate  forecasts of our future  requirements.  We
endeavor to maintain ongoing  communication  with our suppliers to guard against
interruptions  in  supply  and,  to date,  generally  have  been  able to obtain
adequate  supplies in a timely manner from our existing  sources.  However,  any
interruption in the supply of these key materials, components or equipment could
have a significant adverse effect on our operations.

COMPETITION
-----------

The  semiconductor  industry is intensely  competitive and is  characterized  by
rapid technological  change, price erosion and intense foreign  competition.  We
believe that we currently enjoy a favorable position in the existing markets for
SiC-based  products  and  materials.  However,  we  face  actual  and  potential
competition  from a number of established  domestic and  international  compound
semiconductor  companies.  Many of these  companies  have  greater  engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we have.

                                      -12-

<PAGE>
Our  primary  competition  for blue and green LED  products  comes  from  Nichia
Chemical  Industries,  Ltd.,  or Nichia,  Toyoda  Gosei Co.  Ltd.  and Lumi Leds
Lighting,  a joint venture between Agilent  Technologies  and Philips  Lighting.
These companies  currently  market blue and green LED products that are brighter
than our high  brightness  blue and green LED  devices.  In  addition,  Uniroyal
Technologies,  Inc.,  American Xtal  Technology,  Lucky Goldstar and other Asian
based companies have announced  intentions to begin production of blue and green
LEDs, all on sapphire  substrates.  Some of our existing  competitors  have been
more successful than us in the market for outdoor display  applications  because
of the brightness  demands of outdoor  displays,  as well as the decreased price
sensitivity  of the outdoor  display  market.  We believe our brighter  blue and
green LEDs have enabled us to compete  successfully  in this market  because our
LEDs often can be used in the same  applications  at a lower cost than competing
products.  We are  working on plans to  improve  the  brightness  of our LEDs to
enhance our ability to compete in this  market.  We believe that our approach to
manufacturing   blue  and  green  LEDs  from  SiC   substrates   offers  a  more
cost-effective  design  and  process  than  competitors,   who  use  a  sapphire
substrate.  Our  smaller  chip  design,  which  is  possible  because  we  use a
conductive  substrate,  permits  more  devices  to be  fabricated  on each wafer
processed,  which lowers our cost per unit. In addition,  our industry  standard
vertical  chip  structure  allows  manufacturers  to package the LED on the same
production  line as other green,  amber and red LEDs,  eliminating  the need for
special   equipment   necessary  for  chips  made  from   sapphire   substrates.
Furthermore,  our  SiC-based  devices can  withstand a higher  level of ESD than
existing   sapphire-based   products  and   therefore   are  more  suitable  for
applications  that  require  high  ESD  emission  ratings,  such  as  automotive
applications.

In  addition  to  competitor  using  alternative  LED  technology,  Osram  OS is
currently  producing LEDs using technology  licensed from us in 1995.  Shin-Etsu
has also  licensed  certain  of our LED  technology  in 1996  but has not  begun
production  under this  license.  The market  for SiC  wafers  also is  becoming
competitive,  as other  companies  in recent years have begun to offer SiC wafer
products or announced plans to do so.

PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
------------------------------

We seek to protect our  proprietary  technology  by applying  for patents  where
appropriate and in other cases by preserving the technology and related know-how
and  information  as trade  secrets.  We have also  from time to time  acquired,
through  license  grants  or  assignments,   rights  to  patents  on  inventions
originally developed by others.

At June 25, 2000 we owned or held exclusive  rights licensed under a total of 70
issued U.S. patents,  subject in some cases to nonexclusive  license rights held
by third  parties.  These  patents  expire  between 2007 and 2018.  Two of these
patents  are  jointly  owned with a third  party.  In  addition,  we own or hold
exclusive license rights under corresponding  patents and patent applications in
certain foreign countries.

Included in the patent licenses we hold is an exclusive license granted by North
Carolina  State  University,   or  N.C.  State,  to  10  U.S.  patents,  and  to
corresponding foreign patents and applications, that relate to SiC materials and
device technology,  including a process to grow single crystal SiC. The license,
granted  pursuant  to an  agreement  executed  with  N.C.  State in  1987,  is a
worldwide,  fully paid, exclusive license to manufacture,  use and sell products
and processes covered by the claims of patent  applications  filed by N.C. State
relating to the licensed  inventions.  Ten U.S. patents were subsequently issued
with respect to the  applications,  with expiration dates between 2007 and 2009.
Twelve of the foreign  applications  have been issued with expiration dates from
2006 to 2013. The U.S. government holds a non-exclusive  license to practice the
inventions  covered by the N.C. State license for government  purposes.  We have
also  entered  into  other  license  agreements  with N.C.  State,  and with the
licensing

                                      -13-

<PAGE>
agencies of other universities,  under which we have obtained rights to practice
inventions claimed in various patents and applications  issued or pending in the
U.S. and other foreign countries.

For proprietary technology which is not patented or otherwise published, we seek
to protect the technology and related  know-how and information as trade secrets
and to maintain it in confidence through appropriate  non-disclosure  agreements
with employees and others to whom the information is disclosed.  There can be no
assurance  that these  agreements  will provide  meaningful  protection  against
unauthorized  disclosure  or use of our  confidential  information  or that  our
proprietary   technology  and  know-how  will  not  otherwise  become  known  or
independently  discovered  by  others.  We also  rely  upon  other  intellectual
property rights such as copyright where appropriate.

Because of rapid technological  developments in the semiconductor  industry, the
patent position of any semiconductor materials or device manufacturer, including
ours,  is subject to  uncertainties  and may involve  complex  legal and factual
issues.  Consequently,  there can be no assurance that patents will be issued on
any of the pending  applications  owned or licensed to us or that claims allowed
in any patents issued or licensed to us will not be contested or invalidated. In
the past, the U.S.  patent that we license from N.C. State relating to growth of
SiC was subject to a reissue proceeding;  however,  that patent was successfully
reissued.  Currently,  a corresponding  European patent is being opposed,  which
means that we could lose patent  protection in Europe for this particular method
or that the scope of our patent protection may be reduced.  There is likewise no
assurance  that patent rights owned or  exclusively  licensed to us will provide
significant  commercial  protection  since issuance of a patent does not prevent
other companies from using alternative,  non-infringing technology.  Further, we
earn a material  amount of our revenues in overseas  markets.  While we hold and
have  applied for patent  protection  for certain of our  technologies  in these
markets,  there  can be no  assurance  that we  will  obtain  protection  in all
commercially  significant  foreign  markets  or that our  intellectual  property
rights will provide adequate protection in all such markets.

In December 1999, one of our  distributors  in Japan,  Sumitomo,  was named in a
lawsuit filed by Nichia in Tokyo District  Court.  As previously  reported,  the
complaint in this proceeding is directed to our standard brightness LED products
and alleges that these products infringe a Japanese patent owned by Nichia.  The
suit seeks a permanent  injunction against further  distribution of the products
in Japan. We have intervened in the proceeding and filed a response  denying the
allegations  of  infringement.  In April 2000,  Nichia  commenced two additional
lawsuits  against  Sumitomo in Tokyo District Court in which it alleges that our
high brightness LED products  infringe a second Japanese patent owned by Nichia.
The complaints in the new proceedings seek provisional and permanent  injunctive
relief  prohibiting  Sumitomo from further sales of these products in Japan.  We
have  intervened in the new  proceedings  and have filed  responses  denying the
allegations of  infringement.  No monetary  damages for  infringement  have been
sought in any of the lawsuits  brought by Nichia  against  Sumitomo.  Management
believes  that the  infringement  claims are without merit and that the lawsuits
are  motivated  by  competitive  factors.  We intend to  vigorously  defend  our
products against these claims.

Frequent  claims and  litigation  involving  patents and  intellectual  property
rights are common in the semiconductor industry.  Litigation may be necessary in
the future to enforce our  intellectual  property rights or to defend us against
claims of  infringement,  and such  litigation  can be protracted and costly and
divert the  attention of key  personnel.  There can be no  assurance  that third
parties will not attempt to assert  infringement  claims against us with respect
to our current or future  products.  We have been  notified from time to time of
assertions  that our products or processes  may be  infringing  patents or other
intellectual  property rights of others.  We have  investigated  such claims and
determined the assertions  were without merit or taken steps to obtain a license
or avoid the  infringement.  However,  we cannot

                                      -14-

<PAGE>
predict  whether  past or  future  assertions  of  infringement  may  result  in
litigation  or the  extent to which  such  assertions  may  require us to seek a
license  under the rights  asserted or whether a license  would be  available or
available on acceptable  terms.  Likewise,  we cannot  predict the occurrence of
future  assertions of  infringement  that may prevent us from selling  products,
result in litigation or require us to pay damage awards.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
------------------------

The Company is subject to a variety of  governmental  regulations  pertaining to
chemical and waste  discharges and other aspects of our  manufacturing  process.
For example, we are responsible for the management of the hazardous materials we
use and dispose of hazardous waste resulting from our manufacturing process. The
proper handling and disposal of such hazardous material and waste requires us to
comply with certain government regulations. We believe we are in full compliance
with such  regulations,  but any  failure  to  comply,  whether  intentional  or
inadvertent, could have an adverse effect on our business.

EMPLOYEES
---------

As of June 25,  2000,  the Company  (including  its  subsidiaries)  employed 680
people,  including  524  in  manufacturing  operations,   110  in  research  and
development,  and 46 in sales and general administration.  None of our employees
is represented by a labor union or subject to collective bargaining  agreements.
We believe relations with our employees are strong.

CERTAIN BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
----------------------------------------

OUR  OPERATING  RESULTS MAY  FLUCTUATE  SIGNIFICANTLY  AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
MAINTAIN OUR EXISTING GROWTH RATE.

Although we have had significant revenue and earnings growth in recent quarters,
we  may  not be  able  to  sustain  these  growth  rates  and we may  experience
significant fluctuations in our revenue and earnings in the future.

Our operating results will depend on many factors, including the following:

     o our ability to develop, manufacture and deliver products in  a timely and
       cost-effective  manner;
     o whether we encounter low levels  of usable  product  produced during each
       manufacturing step (our "yield");
     o our ability to expand our production of SiC wafers and devices;
     o our ability to produce higher brightness products;
     o demand for our products or our customers' products;
     o competition; and
     o general industry and global economic conditions.

Our future  operating  results  could be  adversely  affected  by these or other
factors.  If our future  operating  results are below the  expectations of stock
market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline.

IF WE EXPERIENCE POOR PRODUCTION YIELDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY SUFFER.

Our SiC material  products and our LED and RF device  products are  manufactured
using  technologies  that are highly  complex.  Our  customers  incorporate  our
products into high volume applications such as

                                      -15-

<PAGE>
automotive  dashboards,   wireless  handsets,  full  color  video  displays  and
gemstones,  and they  insist that our  products  meet exact  specifications  for
quality, performance and reliability.

The  number  of  usable  crystals,  wafers  and  devices  that  result  from our
production  processes can  fluctuate as a result of many factors,  including but
not  limited  to  the  following:

     o impurities in the materials used;
     o contamination of the manufacturing environment;
     o equipment failure, power outages or variations in the manufacturing
       process;
     o losses from broken wafers or other human error; and
     o defects in packaging.

Because many of our  manufacturing  costs are fixed,  if our yields decrease our
operating  results  would  be  adversely  affected.  For  this  reason,  we  are
constantly  trying to  improve  our  yields.  In the past,  we have  experienced
difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on new products, which has adversely
affected our operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future
and we cannot  predict  when they may occur or their  severity.  These  problems
could significantly affect our future operating results.

THERE ARE LIMITATIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

Our intellectual  property  position is based in part on patents owned by us and
patents  exclusively  licensed  to us by N.C.  State and  others.  The  licensed
patents include patents relating to our SiC crystal growth process. We intend to
continue to file patent  applications in the future,  where appropriate,  and to
pursue such applications with U.S. and foreign patent authorities, but we cannot
be sure that patents will be issued on such applications or that our existing or
future patents will not be  successfully  contested.  Also,  since issuance of a
valid  patent  does  not  prevent  other   companies  from  using   alternative,
non-infringing technology, we cannot be sure that any of our patents (or patents
issued  to  others  and  licensed  to us) will  provide  significant  commercial
protection.  In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and
other non-patented  proprietary  information relating to our product development
and  manufacturing   activities.   We  try  to  protect  this  information  with
confidentiality  agreements  with our employees and other parties.  We cannot be
sure that these  agreements  will not be breached,  that we would have  adequate
remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and proprietary  know-how will
not otherwise become known or independently discovered by others.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PRODUCE ADEQUATE QUANTITIES OF OUR HIGH BRIGHTNESS LEDs, OUR
OPERATING RESULTS MAY SUFFER.

We believe that higher volume  production of high brightness blue and green LEDs
will be important to our future  operating  results.  Achieving  greater volumes
requires improved production yields for these products. Successful production of
these products is subject to a number of risks, including the following:

     o our ability to consistently manufacture these products in volumes large
       enough to cover our fixed costs and satisfy our customers' requirements;
       and
     o our ability to improve our yields and reduce the costs associated with
       the manufacture of these products.

Our inability to produce  adequate  quantities of our high  brightness  blue and
green products would have a material adverse effect on our business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

                                      -16-

<PAGE>
OUR OPERATING  RESULTS ARE  SUBSTANTIALLY  DEPENDENT ON THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF NEW
PRODUCTS BASED ON OUR CORE SIC TECHNOLOGY.

Our future  success will depend on our ability to develop new SiC  solutions for
existing  and new  markets.  We must  introduce  new  products  in a timely  and
cost-effective  manner, and we must secure production orders from our customers.
The  development  of new SiC products is a highly complex  process,  and we have
historically  experienced  delays in completing the development and introduction
of new products.  Products currently under development include high power RF and
microwave devices,  power devices,  blue laser diodes,  high temperature devices
and higher brightness LED products.  The successful development and introduction
of these products depends on a number of factors, including the following:

     o achievement of technology breakthroughs required to make commercially
       viable devices;
     o the accuracy of our predictions of market requirements and evolving
       standards;
     o acceptance of our new product designs;
     o the availability of qualified development personnel;
     o our timely completion of product designs and development;
     o our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products
       in sufficient quantities for commercial sales;
     o our customers' ability to develop applications incorporating our
       products; and
     o acceptance of our customers' products by the market.

If any of these  or  other  factors  become  problematic,  we may not be able to
develop and introduce these new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner.

WE DEPEND ON A FEW LARGE CUSTOMERS.

Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has come from large purchases
by a small number of customers.  We expect that trend to continue.  For example,
for fiscal 2000 our top five  customers  accounted for 82% of our total revenue.
Accordingly,  our future operating  results depend on the success of our largest
customers  and on our success in selling  large  quantities  of our  products to
them.  The  concentration  of our revenues with a few large  customers  makes us
particularly  dependent on factors  affecting those customers.  For example,  if
demand for their products  decreases,  they may stop purchasing our products and
our operating  results will suffer.  If we lose a large customer and fail to add
new customers to replace lost revenue, our operating results may not recover.

WE  FACE  CHALLENGES RELATING TO EXPANSION  OF OUR  PRODUCTION AND MANUFACTURING
FACILITY.

In order to increase  production at our new  facility,  we must add critical new
equipment,  move existing  equipment and complete the  construction and upfit of
buildings.  Expansion activities such as these are subject to a number of risks,
including unforeseen  environmental or engineering problems relating to existing
or new facilities or unavailability or late delivery of the advanced,  and often
customized,  equipment  used in the  production of our  products,  and delays in
bringing  production  equipment  on-line.  These and other  risks may affect the
construction  of new  facilities,  which could  adversely  affect our  business,
results of operations and financial condition.

                                      -17-
<PAGE>
THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE OPERATE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE.

The market for our products is highly  competitive.  Our  competitors  currently
sell blue and green LEDs made from  sapphire  wafers that are brighter  than the
high brightness  LEDs we currently  produce.  In addition,  new firms have begun
offering or  announced  plans to offer blue and green  LEDs.  The market for SiC
wafers is also  becoming  competitive  as other firms have in recent years begun
offering  SiC  wafer  products  or  announced  plans  to do so.  We also  expect
significant competition for products we are currently developing,  such as those
for use in microwave communications.

We expect  competition  to  increase.  This  could  mean  lower  prices  for our
products,  reduced demand for our products and a corresponding  reduction in our
ability to recover  development,  engineering and  manufacturing  costs.  Any of
these  developments  could have an adverse  effect on our  business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

WE FACE SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGES MANAGING OUR GROWTH.

We have  experienced  a period  of  significant  growth  that has  strained  our
management and other resources. We have grown from 188 employees on December 31,
1996 to 680  employees on June 25, 2000 and from  revenues of $44.0  million for
the fiscal year ended June 28, 1998 to $108.6  million for the fiscal year ended
June 25, 2000. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to:

     o implement and improve operation systems;
     o maintain adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet customer
       demand;
     o add experienced senior level managers; and
     o attract and retain qualified people with experience in engineering,
       design, technical marketing support.

We will spend substantial amounts of money in supporting our growth and may have
additional  unexpected  costs.  Our systems,  procedures  or controls may not be
adequate to support  our  operations,  and we may not be able to expand  quickly
enough to exploit potential market  opportunities.  Our future operating results
will also depend on expanding sales and marketing, research and development, and
administrative  support.  If we cannot attract qualified people or manage growth
effectively,  our business  operating  results and financial  condition could be
adversely affected.

OUR  OPERATING  RESULTS  COULD BE ADVERSELY  AFFECTED IF WE  ENCOUNTER  PROBLEMS
TRANSITIONING LED PRODUCTION TO A LARGER WAFER SIZE.

Beginning in fiscal 2001, we plan to begin shifting LED production from two-inch
wafers to three-inch  wafers. We must first qualify our production  processes on
systems  designed to accommodate the larger wafer size, and some of our existing
production  equipment must be refitted for the larger wafer size. Delays in this
process could have an adverse effect on our business.  In addition,  in the past
we have experienced  lower yields for a period of time following a transition to
a larger  wafer  size  until  use of the  larger  wafer is fully  integrated  in
production and we begin to achieve production efficiency.  We anticipate that we
will experience  similar temporary yield reductions during the transition to the
three-inch  wafers,  and we have  factored  this  into our  plan for  production
capacity.  If this  transition  phase  takes  longer than we expect or if we are
unable to attain  expected  yield  improvements,  our  operating  results may be
adversely affected.

                                      -18-

<PAGE>
WE RELY ON A FEW KEY SUPPLIERS.

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components
and equipment used in  manufacturing  our SiC products,  including key materials
and  equipment  used in  critical  stages  of our  manufacturing  processes.  We
generally  purchase these limited source items with purchase orders, and we have
no guaranteed supply  arrangements with such suppliers.  If we were to lose such
key  suppliers,  our  manufacturing  efforts  could be  hampered  significantly.
Although we believe  our  relationship  with our  suppliers  is good,  we cannot
assure  you that we will  continue  to  maintain  good  relationships  with such
suppliers or that such suppliers will continue to exist.

IF  GOVERNMENT  AGENCIES OR OTHER  CUSTOMERS  DISCONTINUE  THEIR FUNDING FOR OUR
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF SIC TECHNOLOGY, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER.

In the past,  government  agencies and other customers have funded a significant
portion  of  our  research  and  development  activities.  If  this  support  is
discontinued  or reduced,  our ability to develop or enhance  products  could be
limited and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be
adversely affected.

OUR OPERATIONS COULD INFRINGE UPON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS.

Other  companies may hold or obtain patents on inventions or may otherwise claim
proprietary rights to technology necessary to our business. We cannot assure you
that third  parties will not attempt to assert  infringement  claims  against us
with respect to our current or future products,  including our core products. We
cannot  predict  the  extent to which  such  assertions  may  require us to seek
licenses or, if required,  whether such  licenses  will be offered or offered on
acceptable terms or that disputes can be resolved without litigation. Litigation
to determine the validity of  infringement,  or claims alleged by third parties,
could  result  in  significant  expense  to us and  divert  the  efforts  of our
technical and management personnel,  whether or not the litigation is ultimately
determined in our favor. We cannot predict the occurrence of future intellectual
property claims that may prevent us from selling products,  result in litigation
or give rise to indemnification obligations or damage claims.

IF AN ADVERSE  JUDGEMENT  IS  ENTERED  IN THE  PENDING  PATENT  LITIGATION,  OUR
BUSINESS MAY SUFFER.

Our  distributor  in Japan is currently a party to patent  litigation  in Japan,
brought by Nichia,  in which Nichia  claims that our LED  products  infringe two
Japanese  patents it owns. The  complaints in the  proceedings  seek  injunctive
relief  that  would  prohibit  our  distributor  from  further  sales of our LED
products  in Japan.  A result  adverse to the  distributor  in these cases would
impair our ability to sell both our standard  brightness and high brightness LED
products in Japan. Subject to contractual limitations,  we have an obligation to
indemnify our distributor for certain patent infringement claims.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS FROM INTERNATIONAL SALES.

Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for about 69%, 59% and 58%
of our  revenue in fiscal  2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.  We expect  that
revenue from  international  sales will continue to be a significant part of our
total revenue.  International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including
risks arising from  currency  fluctuations,  the emergence of the Euro,  trading
restrictions,  tariffs,  trade  barriers and taxes.  Also,  U.S.  Government  or
military  export  restrictions  could limit or prohibit  sales to  customers  in
certain   countries   because  of  their  uses  in  military   or   surveillance
applications.  Because all

                                      -19-

<PAGE>
of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S.  dollars,  our products become less
price  competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in
value against the U.S.  dollar.  Also, we cannot be sure that our  international
customers will continue to place orders denominated in U.S. dollars.  If they do
not,  our  reported  revenue and  earnings  will be subject to foreign  exchange
fluctuations.
