ITEM 1.  Business

   Cirrus Logic ("we", "us", "our", "the Company") is a leading supplier of
high-performance analog and digital signal processing ("DSP") chip solutions
for consumer entertainment electronics that allow people to see, hear, connect,
and enjoy digital entertainment. Our chip solutions or integrated circuits
("ICs"), employ high-performance analog and DSP technologies to manipulate and
improve the quality of audio, video, and connectivity signals. Our ICs also
convert signals from digital-to-analog and analog-to-digital, as is frequently
required in electronic equipment. An audio chip solution that can perform both
of these conversion functions is referred to as a coder-decoder or codec.
Codecs and other devices that process both digital and analog signals are
referred to as mixed-signal devices. Our mixed-signal devices are designed for
specific markets that derive value from our expertise in advanced mixed-signal
design processing, systems-level engineering, and software knowledge. Our chip
solutions enable original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") to accelerate
development of leading-edge digital entertainment products that are in high
consumer demand.

   We were founded in 1984 and were reincorporated in the State of Delaware in
February 1999. With headquarters in Austin, Texas and major sites in California
(Fremont and El Dorado Hills) and Colorado (Broomfield and Boulder), we also
serve customers from international offices in Japan, Asia and Europe. Our
common stock, which has been publicly traded since 1989, is listed on the
NASDAQ National Market under the symbol CRUS.

   During fiscal 2002, we acquired the assets of Peak Audio, Inc. and 100% of
the voting shares of ShareWave, Inc., LuxSonor Semiconductors, Inc. and Stream
Machine Company. These acquisitions provided us with additional technology and
products in our three product groups explained below.

Markets and Products

   Our products are currently used in the consumer electronics, personal
computer, telecommunications, and data acquisition markets. During the last
several years and most of fiscal 2002, we organized our products into the
following three principal product groups:

Analog Products: consumer audio, industrial automation and control, data
acquisition, personal computer, and communication applications

Internet Solutions: optical storage and embedded processor applications

Magnetic Storage: hard disk drive and read/write applications

   During fiscal 2002, we exited the magnetic storage chip business, completed
four acquisitions and changed our business model to focus on consumer
entertainment electronics. As a result of these events, we began reporting on
our products using three new product groups effective with the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2002. The new product groups are:

Audio Products: consumer audio analog converters, consumer audio DSP, embedded
audio processors, personal computer audio, and data acquisition

Video Products: DVD optical servo controllers, DVD video decoders, and MPEG-2
video recording

Connectivity Products: embedded Ethernet, wireless networking, and
communications

   We offer more than 200 products to over 4,000 customers worldwide, through
both direct and indirect sales channels. Our major customers are among the
world's leading electronics manufacturers and include Apple, Bose, Creative
Technologies, Dell, Denon, Harman Kardon, Hitachi, IBM, Kenwood, Pace,
Panasonic, Philips, Pioneer, Samsung, Schlumberger, SONICblue (formerly
S3/Diamond Multimedia), Sony, and Thomson Multimedia.

   We target both large existing and emerging growth consumer entertainment
markets that derive value from our expertise in advanced mixed-signal design
processing, systems-level engineering, and software expertise. This expertise
is most evident in our ICs and related operating systems as well as subsystem
modules or system equipment designs and related software.

                                      3

<PAGE>

Audio Products

   Our audio group of products is utilized in consumer audio, embedded audio
processor, and PC audio products, as well as in industrial data acquisition and
measurement products. Our industrial products serve as technology drivers for
advanced mixed-signal techniques that have potential use in our broader
consumer product line.

Consumer Audio

   We currently offer more than 100 products for the consumer, professional,
and automotive audio markets in our consumer audio product line.

   Our consumer products are incorporated into a wide range of audio equipment
in the high-fidelity audio market, including audio/video receivers and
amplifiers, home-theater systems, cable and satellite set-top boxes, digital
audio tape recorders, audio and video compact disc players and recorders,
powered speakers, DVD players, DVD receivers, DVD recorders and MP3/WMA
("Windows Media Audio") compressed audio players. DVD players use an optical
disc technology that is expected to replace the audio and video compact disc
("CD"), as well as the computer CD-ROM, over the next few years due to its
significantly greater storage capacity. MP3 technology typically provides a
greater than ten-to-one file size reduction for digital audio content. By using
MP3 compression, approximately 30 minutes of audio content can be loaded into a
small form factor, 32 MB solid-state portable music player versus an hour using
WMA compression. Additionally, approximately 11 hours of audio content can be
loaded onto a standard CD disc by using MP3 compression versus approximately 22
hours of audio content using WMA compression. Our processor and mixed-signal
products convert the player's internal digital sound output into an analog
audio signal.

   Our products include audio analog-to-digital converters, audio
digital-to-analog converters, audio codecs that combine analog-to-digital and
digital-to-analog converters in a single package, Pulse Width Modulation
("PWM") audio amplifiers, audio digital interface components, TV encoders, and
a family of audio decoders that use DSP technology and that support the
principal standards in the audio industry, such as Dolby Digital(R) (AC-3),
Advanced Audio Codec(R) ("AAC"), Digital Theater System(R) ("DTS"), including
support for the new DTS 96/24 standard, Moving Picture Experts Group ("MPEG")
audio decoding, Prologic/Prologic II, THX, and other special sound effects
processing. Our customers include Aiwa, Bose, Harman Kardon, Kenwood, LG,
Marantz, Onkyo, Panasonic, Pioneer, RCA/Thomson, Sony, and Yamaha. We are a
leading supplier of digital audio devices for both the MP3 player market and
the audio/video receiver markets.

   Our professional and automotive products include audio analog-to-digital
converters, audio digital-to-analog converters, audio digital interface
products, audio sample rate converters, and products that enhance audio signal
quality using DSP technology. Our professional and automotive products are
incorporated in high-end professional recording equipment, high performance
digital mixing consoles, special effects processors, musical instrument
amplifiers, and automotive stereo systems.

Computer Audio

   We currently offer more than 15 computer audio products for use in personal
computers and workstations. A workstation is a computer intended for individual
use, which is faster and more capable than a personal computer. Our chips are
incorporated into the motherboards of desktop and notebook computers and
workstations, as well as in external cards that plug into computers and
workstations that enable audio functions on those machines. We are one of the
leading suppliers of stereo audio chips for the personal computer and
workstation markets. Our chips provide a cost-effective solution for
multi-channel upgradability. Our chips provide high quality audio signals for
the input and output functions of personal computer and workstation audio
products. Our chips support a range of personal computer and workstation audio
systems, including those that offer three dimensional sound effects and music
synthesis, such as sound processing and mixing capabilities, as

                                      4

<PAGE>

well as compatibility with standard audio software packages, such as
SoundBlaster(R) and Microsoft DirectSound(R). Our computer audio products
enhance the sound quality and audio capabilities of personal computers and
workstations. These products include personal computer interface digital signal
processors, which enable advanced audio functions. These advanced audio
functions include music synthesis, including sound processing and mixing
capabilities for gaming, MP3 encode and decode Dolby Digital(R) and DTS(R)
add-in cards to enhance the home theater listening experience. Our other
products that enhance the sound quality and audio capabilities of personal
computers and workstations include controller products, which enable special
sound effects processing in personal computers and workstations and allow
personal computer gamers to perceive sound as coming from various points around
them in a three-dimensional space, sound equalizers, acoustic echo cancellation
for high quality Internet audio, acceleration for Microsoft DirectSound(R), and
other standard industry interfaces such as Aerial 3D ("A3D") and Environmental
Audio Extension ("EAX"). Our principal customers include Creative Technologies,
Dell, Hewlett Packard, Intel, and IBM.

Market Specific Processors

   We develop and market highly integrated, system-on-chip ("SOC") products for
emerging consumer applications. SOC products integrate a number of different
functions or systems onto a single chip. In the past, most electronic products
required multiple chips to perform different functions; reducing the number of
chips in a design allows space and cost savings for consumers. Our current SOC
designs are based on processor cores licensed from ARM Ltd. and are marketed as
market-specific processors. These products are designed for use in digital
audio devices, handheld information appliances and Internet computing devices.
Currently, we are the leading supplier of chips in the portable digital audio
market, with customers including SONICblue, Creative Technologies,
Hewlett-Packard, Samsung and iRiver. We expect our next generation of chips to
enable further growth of the digital audio market via a new home entertainment
appliance called the Digital Audio Jukebox. This product compresses music
acquired over the Internet or from personal collections, stores the music on a
local hard disk drive, and allows the music to be played over a home
entertainment system. Other chips specifically target applications such as
personal digital assistants ("PDAs") and Internet information appliances, such
as electronic books and low-cost Internet terminals.

Data Acquisition

   We design and market analog, digital and mixed-signal chips for data
acquisition, instrumentation and process control applications. In addition to
supporting the data acquisition product line, the advanced mixed-signal
technologies developed for this product line have potential use across our
broader line of consumer entertainment products. Our data acquisition product
line includes more than 100 products used in industrial automation,
instrumentation, medical, military and geophysical applications. Types of
applications include the measurement of energy usage in power meters and
fluorescent light fixtures, temperature gauges for industrial and medical use,
seismic devices for oil field and seismology applications and high-precision
weigh scales for commercial and scientific use. Our broad line of
analog-to-digital converters consists of general purpose and low frequency
measurement devices. These devices use patented self-calibration techniques
that improve accuracy and reduce system-level cost. Our customers include
National Instruments, Rockwell Automation and Schlumberger.

Video Products

   Our video group of products consists of chip solutions for DVD optical servo
controllers, DVD video decoders and MPEG-2 video recording.

Optical Storage

   For several years, we have supplied CD-ROM and CD-RW products, which are
principally targeted at PC-based markets. CD-ROM drives do not allow writing to
the compact disc. CD-ROM drives have been developed

                                      5

<PAGE>

that permit users of personal computers and workstations to record on CD-ROMs
either one time, referred to as CD-R drives, or numerous times, referred to as
CD-RW drives. The information stored on a CD is transmitted to the computer or
workstation through a device referred to as a decoder and is written to CD-R or
CD-RW through a device referred to as an encoder. In fiscal 2001, we
discontinued our CD-ROM decoder products. In fiscal 2002, we decided to
discontinue our CD-RW products. We expect to make our final shipment of CD-RW
parts in the first half of fiscal 2003.

   We also provide chips for the DVD drive electronics market. We completed
development of a DVD drive manager (CL3710) in fiscal 2001. This highly
integrated, high performance chip solution was designed to serve a variety of
DVD applications, including PC-based DVD-ROM drives, consumer DVD players, and
DVD-based game consoles. We began making production shipments of this device at
the end of fiscal 2001 and are now shipping in significant volumes.

   We currently sell a large volume of CL3710 products to Thomson Multimedia
S.A. for inclusion in Microsoft's Xbox. In addition, we are leveraging the
technologies acquired in the acquisition of LuxSonor in fiscal 2002 by
combining both drive electronics with MPEG decoder on a single board to provide
a complete DVD player solution on a single board. This product is being
aggressively marketed in Asia.

   Looking forward, we expect to take further advantage of the combined
technologies of DVD drive and MPEG decoder to provide cost effective volume
products for the DVD player market.

DVD Processors

   This product line, which resulted from the acquisition of LuxSonor, provides
chips and software for controlling the functionality of DVD disc navigation
along with digital audio and video decompression within consumer DVD players.
Currently we are shipping a first-generation device called the CS98000 and a
second-generation product, called the CS98100, which also includes the video
digital-to-analog converters to provide additional system cost reduction.

Video Recording

   As a result of our acquisition of Stream Machine during fiscal 2002, we
acquired MPEG-2 video recording technology with expertise in digital audio and
video, including architecture, algorithms, and compression technology. We have
assimilated this technology and expertise, and are now developing and marketing
video codecs and audio/video codecs for use in consumer electronics, including
desktop video editing, personal video recorders ("PVR") and DVD recording. We
are currently shipping these products in volume.

Connectivity

   Our connectivity group of products includes chips for embedded Ethernet,
wireless networking, and communications products.

Communications

   We design and market embedded Ethernet chips for use in broadband access
customer premises equipment, such as digital cable set-top boxes, cable modems,
and DSL modems. These broadband access devices, also known as "residential
gateways," enable home users to access voice, video and data content, typically
using the Internet, over a single communications connection. The same Ethernet
chips are commonly used in other embedded applications, such as Voice Over
Internet Protocol ("VoIP") telephones, industrial controllers, and wireless
access points. In addition, we develop and market telephony ICs, primarily
T1/E1/J1 Line Interface Units, which provide switched interface solutions for
telecommunications and data communications equipment.

                                      6

<PAGE>

Wireless Networking

   As a result of the acquisition of ShareWave, we now provide one of the
industry's best wireless LAN technologies for meeting the unique needs of the
home, including multimedia support, reduced interference from common household
devices, and ease of use. We deliver a solution for seamlessly transmitting
high-fidelity entertainment content, including MPEG-2 video and CD-quality
audio, wirelessly throughout the home. Our technology is capable of
transmitting the full range of multimedia content, including video, audio,
voice, and data within the home environment. Accordingly, common household
interferers such as microwave ovens and cordless phones do not adversely affect
our wireless technology.

   Our technology portfolio includes wireless network controllers that support
IEEE 802.11b standards, Whitecap(TM) network protocols, including 802.11 media
access controller ("MAC") technology, plus multimedia and quality of service
("QoS") extensions and a broad range of radio and system reference designs.
Whitecap technology delivers a wireless local area network ("WLAN") solution
capable of seamlessly transmitting high-quality audio and video entertainment
throughout the home. Our technology enables a new range of wireless consumer
devices, such as networked set-top boxes, residential gateways, personal video
recorders, DVD players, wireless MP3 players, mobile web pads, and digital
audio and video jukeboxes. It also facilitates the deployment of a broad range
of new digital content and services, including video-on-demand,
audio-on-demand, VoIP, and streaming media.

   Our products capitalize on the rapidly growing broadband access, digital
media, and home networking markets. The current wave of home networking
applications centers on broadband Internet deployment to the home. Home
networks enable consumers to extend their broadband connection (and the content
and services delivered through this connection) from the initial point of
termination in the home to a variety of PCs and non-PC devices located
throughout the household. The next wave of applications centers on digital
entertainment distribution, both over the broadband connection and among
devices within the home. Home networks will enable consumers to connect these
disparate devices and content sources for access to any digital content. We
expect that this wave of applications will drive home networking adoption
beyond early adopter market segments and into the mainstream consumer market.

Magnetic Storage Business Group

   For more than 15 years, we supplied chips that performed the key electronics
functions contained in advanced magnetic and removable disk drives for personal
computers and workstations. During the first quarter of fiscal 2002, we
announced that we were de-emphasizing our magnetic storage chip business and
focusing on consumer entertainment electronics. We completed our exit from the
magnetic storage chip business during the second quarter of fiscal 2002. Our
magnetic storage customers during fiscal 2002 included Fujitsu, Hitachi, and
Western Digital. As discussed in Note 8 in the Notes to our Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in "Item 8 - Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data," we are currently involved in lawsuits with Fujitsu and
Western Digital.

Manufacturing

   We contract with third parties for all of our wafer fabrication and
assembly, as well as a portion of our testing. Our fabless manufacturing
strategy allows us to concentrate on our design strengths, minimize fixed costs
and capital expenditures, and access advanced manufacturing facilities. After
wafer fabrication by the foundry, third-party assembly vendors package the
wafer die. The finished products are then sent for testing, either to
third-party testers or to our internal test facility, before shipment to our
customers. Our manufacturing organization qualifies each product, participates
in process and package development, defines and controls the manufacturing
process at our suppliers, develops test programs, and performs production
testing of products in accordance with our ISO-certified quality management
system. We use multiple foundries, assembly houses, and test houses.

                                      7

<PAGE>

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks

   To protect our products and technology, we rely on trade secret, patent,
copyright, and trademark laws. We apply for patents arising from our research
and development activities and intend to continue this practice in the future
to protect our products and technologies. As of March 30, 2002, we held 850
U.S. patents, 313 U.S. patent applications pending, and various corresponding
international patents and applications. Our U.S. patents expire in years 2005
through 2021.

   We have obtained U.S. federal registrations for the CIRRUS LOGIC(R) and
CIRRUS(R) trademarks, and our Cirrus Logic logo trademark. These U.S.
registrations may be renewed as long as the marks continue to be used in
interstate commerce. We have also filed or obtained foreign registration for
these marks in other countries or jurisdictions where we conduct, or anticipate
conducting international business.

   To complement our own research and development efforts, we have also
licensed, and expect to continue to license, a variety of intellectual property
and technologies important to our business from outside parties.

Research and Development

   We concentrate our research and development efforts on the design and
development of new products for each of our principal markets and on the
continued enhancement of our design automation tools. We also fund certain
advanced process technology development, as well as other emerging product
opportunities. Expenditures for research and development in fiscal 2002, 2001
and 2000 were $121.6 million, $127.6 million, $121.4 million, respectively.
These amounts exclude acquired in-process research and development expenses of
$31.3 million and $8.0 million in fiscal years 2002 and 2000, respectively. Our
future success is highly dependent upon our ability to develop complex new
products, to transfer new products to production in a timely fashion, to
introduce them to the marketplace ahead of the competition, and to have them
selected for design into products of leading systems manufacturers.

Competition

   Markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect that
competition will increase. We compete with other semiconductor suppliers that
offer standard semiconductors, application-specific integrated circuits and
fully customized integrated circuits, including both chip and board-level
products. A few customers also develop integrated circuits that compete with
our products. Our competitive strategy has been to provide lower-cost versions
of existing products and new, more advanced products for customers' new designs.

   While no single company competes with us in all of our product lines, we
face significant competition in each of our product lines. We expect to face
additional competition from new entrants in each of our markets, which may
include both large domestic and international semiconductor manufacturers and
smaller, emerging companies.

   The principal competitive factors in our markets include time to market;
quality of hardware/software design and end-market systems expertise; price;
product benefits that are characterized by performance, features, quality and
compatibility with standards; access to advanced process and packaging
technologies at competitive prices; and sales and technical support.

   Competition typically occurs at the design stage, where the customer
evaluates alternative design approaches that require integrated circuits.
Because our products have not been available from second sources, we generally
do not face direct competition in selling our products to a customer once our
integrated circuits have been designed into that customer's system.
Nevertheless, because of shortened product life cycles and even shorter
design-in cycles, our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to
achieve design wins in next-generation systems. In the event that competitors
succeed in supplanting our products, our market share may not be sustainable
and net sales, gross margin and earnings would be adversely affected.

                                      8

<PAGE>

Sales, Marketing and Technical Support

   Our products are sold worldwide; however, we sell principally to Asia.
Export sales, which include sales to U.S.-based customers with manufacturing
plants overseas, were 85% in fiscal 2002, 82% in fiscal 2001, and 75% in fiscal
2000. We maintain a worldwide sales force, which is intended to provide
geographically specific selling support to our customers and specialized
selling of product lines with unique customer bases.

   The domestic sales force includes a network of regional direct sales offices
located in California, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts,
Oregon, Texas, and Virginia. International sales offices and organizations are
located in China, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, and the
United Kingdom. We supplement our direct sales force with sales representative
organizations and distributors. Technical support staff is located at the sales
offices and at our facilities in California, Colorado, Texas, India, Japan, and
several locations in China.

Backlog

   Sales are made primarily pursuant to standard short-term purchase orders for
delivery of standard products. The quantity actually ordered by the customer,
as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised to reflect changes in
the customer's needs. As a result, we believe that our backlog at any given
time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenues.

Employees

   As of March 30, 2002, we had approximately 1,203 full-time equivalent
employees, of whom 49% were engaged in research and product development
activities, 33% in sales, marketing, general and administrative activities, and
18% in manufacturing activities. Our future success will depend, in part, on
our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified
technical, marketing, engineering, and management personnel.

   Due to the highly competitive nature of the marketplace that we operate in,
we may from time to time lose key employees to certain of our competitors. We
have been able to hire qualified personnel in the past to fill open positions
created by such occurrences, although there can be no assurance that we will be
able to do this in the future. None of our employees is represented by any
collective bargaining agreements.

Factors Affecting Our Business and Prospects

   Our business faces significant risks. The risk factors set forth below may
not be the only ones that we face. Additional risks that we are not aware of
yet or that currently are not material may adversely affect our business
operations.

THE HIGHLY CYCLICAL SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT INDUSTRY IS EXPERIENCING A
SIGNIFICANT DOWNTURN.

   We are subject to cyclical business cycles, and it is difficult to predict
the timing, length, or volatility of these cycles. We believe that the current
industry downturn, which began in the third calendar quarter of 2000, may be
the most serious and prolonged decline in history. During these downturns,
customers usually reduce purchases, delay delivery of products, and/or cancel
orders. These downturns create pressure on our net sales, gross margin, and
operating income. In addition, these downturns may result in retention issues
with our employees, who are vital to our success.

   During each downturn, we must quickly align our cost structure with
prevailing market conditions, as well as motivate and retain key employees. We
cannot assure you that this downtown, as well as any future downturn, in the
industry will not be severe, or that any such downturn will not have a material
adverse effect on our

                                      9

<PAGE>

business and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will not
experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating costs due to
general semiconductor industry conditions or other factors.

OUR BUSINESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON THE EXPANSION OF THE CONSUMER DIGITAL
ENTERTAINMENT ELECTRONICS MARKET.

   We have changed the focus of our business to consumer digital entertainment
electronics. We are focusing on DVD players and recorders, A/V receivers,
personal audio players, home media servers, set-top boxes, and personal video
recorders. We expect the consumer digital market to expand; however, our
strategy may not be successful. Given the current economic environment and the
large installed base of VCRs and other consumer electronics products, consumer
spending on DVD players and other home electronic products may not increase as
expected. In addition, the potential decline in consumer confidence and
consumer spending relating to future terrorist attacks or war could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

WE HAVE HISTORICALLY EXPERIENCED FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND
EXPECT THESE FLUCTUATIONS TO CONTINUE IN FUTURE PERIODS.

   Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of
factors that could materially and adversely affect our net sales, gross margins
and operating income. These factors include:

  .  the volume and timing of orders received,

  .  changes in the mix of our products sold,

  .  market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers,

  .  the successful integration of companies we have acquired,

  .  competitive pricing pressures,

  .  our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis,

  .  fixed costs associated with minimum purchase commitments under supply
     contracts if demand decreases,

  .  the timing and extent of our research and development expenses,

  .  cyclical semiconductor industry conditions,

  .  the failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements,

  .  fluctuations in manufacturing costs,

  .  disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly services,

  .  the ability of customers to pay us,

  .  increases in material costs,

  .  certain production and other risks associated with using independent
     manufacturers, and

  .  product obsolescence, price erosion, competitive developments, and other
     competitive factors.


   Historically in the integrated circuit industry, average selling prices of
products have decreased over time. If we are unable to introduce new products
with higher margins or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated
decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results will be
adversely affected. Our business is characterized by short-term orders and
shipment schedules, and customer orders typically can be canceled or
rescheduled without penalty to the customer. In addition, because of fixed
costs in the integrated circuit industry, we are limited in our ability to
reduce costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Because of the
foregoing or other factors, we may experience material adverse fluctuations in
our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis.

   In fiscal 2002, sales to Thomson Multimedia accounted for approximately 16%
of net sales, a significant portion of which was attributable to Microsoft's
Xbox. As a result, a significant decrease in Xbox-related orders from Thomson
could have a material adverse effect on our business.

                                      10

<PAGE>

OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS ON A TIMELY BASIS.

   Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products for new and
existing markets, to introduce such products in a timely manner, and to have
such products gain market acceptance. The development of new products is highly
complex and from time to time, we have experienced delays in developing and
introducing them. Successful product development and introduction depends on a
number of factors, including:

  .  proper new product definition,

  .  timely completion of design and testing of new products,

  .  achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields, and

  .  market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers.

   Although we seek to design products that have the potential to become
industry standard products, we cannot assure you that the market leaders will
adopt any products introduced by us, or that any products initially accepted by
our customers that are market leaders will become industry standard products.
Both revenues and margins may be materially affected if new product
introductions are delayed, or if our products are not designed into successive
generations of our customers' products. We cannot assure you that we will be
able to meet these challenges, or adjust to changing market conditions as
quickly and cost-effectively as necessary to compete successfully. Our failure
to develop and introduce new products successfully could harm our business and
operating results.

   Successful product design and development is dependent on our ability to
attract, retain, and motivate qualified design engineers, of which there is a
limited number. Due to the complexity and variety of precision linear and
mixed-signal circuits, the limited number of qualified circuit designers, and
the limited effectiveness of computer-aided design systems in the design of
such circuits, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully
develop and introduce new products on a timely basis.

WE MAY FACE DIFFICULTIES INTEGRATING AND MAY INCUR COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR
PAST ACQUISITIONS AND ANY FUTURE ACQUISITIONS.

   We acquired LuxSonor Semiconductors, Inc., ShareWave, Inc. and Stream
Machine Company, as well as the assets of Peak Audio, Inc., in fiscal 2002. We
could experience difficulties in integrating the personnel, products,
technologies, and operations of these companies. Integrating acquired
businesses involves a number of other risks, including, but not limited to:

  .  the potential disruption of our ongoing business,

  .  unexpected costs or incurring unknown liabilities,

  .  the diversion of management's resources from other business concerns
     involved in identifying, completing, and integrating acquisitions,

  .  the inability to retain the employees of the acquired businesses,

  .  difficulties relating to integrating the operations and personnel of the
     acquired businesses,

  .  adverse effects on the existing customer relationships of acquired
     companies,

  .  the potential incompatibility of business cultures,

  .  entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have
     little experience, and

  .  acquired intangible assets becoming impaired as a result of technological
     advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company.

     If we are unable to successfully address any of these risks, our business
   could be harmed.

                                      11

<PAGE>

WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT INTERNATIONAL SALES AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THESE SALES
THAT COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

   Export sales, principally to Asia, include sales to U.S-based customers with
manufacturing plants overseas, and accounted for 85%, 82%, and 75% of our net
sales in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. We expect export sales to
continue to represent a significant portion of product sales. This reliance on
sales internationally subjects us to the risks of conducting business
internationally, including political and economic conditions. For example, the
financial instability in a given region, such as Asia, may have an adverse
impact on the financial position of end users in the region, which could impact
future orders and/or the ability of such users to pay us, or our customers,
which could also impact the ability of such customers to pay us. While we
expect to carefully evaluate the collection risk related to the financial
position of customers and potential customers in structuring the terms of sale,
in determining whether to accept sales orders, and in evaluating the
recognition of revenue, if a region's volatility harms the financial position
of our customers, our results of operations could be harmed. Our international
sales operations involve a number of other risks, including:

  .  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements,

  .  changes in diplomatic and trade relationships,

  .  delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for
     technology,

  .  tariffs and other barriers and restrictions,

  .  competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering
     the foreign markets in which we operate,

  .  longer sales and payment cycles,

  .  problems in collecting accounts receivable,

  .  political instability, and

  .  the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws.

   In addition, while we may buy hedging instruments to reduce our exposure to
currency exchange rate fluctuations, our competitive position can be affected
by the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, particularly
the Japanese yen. Consequently, increases in the value of the dollar would
increase the price in local currencies of our products in foreign markets and
make our products relatively more expensive. We cannot assure you that
regulatory, political, and other factors will not adversely affect our
operations in the future or require us to modify our current business practices.

THE EXPANSION OF OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS SUBJECTS OUR BUSINESS TO
ADDITIONAL ECONOMIC RISKS THAT COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS.

   In addition to export sales constituting a majority of our net sales, we are
expanding our international operations. Specifically, we have recently focused
our efforts on expanding in the People's Republic of China. Expansion into this
region has required and will continue to require significant management
attention and resources. We have limited experience in the Chinese culture and
may not succeed in expanding our presence into this market or other
international markets. Failure to do so could harm our business. In addition,
there are risks inherent in expanding our presence into foreign regions,
including, but not limited to:

  .  difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations,

  .  failure of foreign laws to protect our U.S. proprietary rights adequately,

  .  additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting American
     interests abroad,

  .  legal uncertainty regarding liability and compliance with foreign laws, and

  .  regulatory requirements.

                                      12

<PAGE>

OUR PRODUCTS ARE COMPLEX AND COULD CONTAIN DEFECTS, WHICH COULD REDUCE SALES OF
THOSE PRODUCTS OR RESULT IN CLAIMS AGAINST US.

   Product development in the markets we serve is becoming more focused on the
integration of functionality on individual devices. There is a general trend
towards increasingly complex products. The greater integration of functions and
complexity of operations of our products increase the risk that our customers
or end users could discover latent defects or subtle faults after volumes of
product have been shipped. This could result in:

  .  material recall and replacement costs for product warranty and support,

  .  adverse impact to our customer relationships by the recurrence of
     significant defects,

  .  delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share, or failure
     to achieve market acceptance, and

  .  diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from our product
     development efforts.

   The occurrence of any of these problems could result in the delay or loss of
market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. In
addition, any defects or other problems with our products could result in
financial or other damages to our customers who could seek damages from us for
their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if
unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend.

OUR SALES MAY FLUCTUATE DUE TO SEASONALITY OF CUSTOMER DEMAND.

   As we focus more on the consumer entertainment market, we are more likely to
be affected by seasonality in the sales of our products. Approximately half of
consumer electronics products are sold during the holiday season. As a result,
we expect a disproportionate amount of our sales to occur in the second and
third fiscal quarters in anticipation of the holiday season.

IF WE FAIL TO ATTRACT, HIRE, AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE
TO DEVELOP, MARKET, OR SELL OUR PRODUCTS OR SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR BUSINESS.

   Competition for personnel in our industry is intense. The number of
technology companies in our geographic area is greater than it has been
historically, and we expect competition for qualified personnel to intensify.
There are only a limited number of people in the job market with the requisite
skills. Our human resources organization focuses significant efforts on
attracting and retaining individuals in key technology positions. Declining
stock market prices, however, make retention more difficult, as prior equity
grants contain less value and key employees pursue equity opportunities
elsewhere. In addition, start-up companies generally offer larger equity grants
to attract individuals from more established companies. The loss of the
services of any key personnel or our inability to hire new personnel with the
requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance
existing products in a timely manner, sell products to our customers, or manage
our business effectively.

SHIFTS IN INDUSTRY-WIDE CAPACITY MAY CAUSE OUR RESULTS TO FLUCTUATE, SUCH
SHIFTS HAVE RESULTED, AND COULD IN THE FUTURE RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY
WRITE-DOWNS.

   Shifts in industry-wide capacity from shortages to oversupply or from
oversupply to shortages, may result in significant fluctuations in our
quarterly and annual operating results. We must order wafers and build
inventory well in advance of product shipments. Because the integrated circuit
industry is highly cyclical and is subject to significant downturns resulting
from excess capacity, overproduction, reduced demand, or technological
obsolescence, there is a risk that we will forecast inaccurately and produce
excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. This inventory risk
is heightened because many of our customers place orders with short lead times.
Due to the product manufacturing cycle characteristic of integrated circuit
manufacturing and the inherent imprecision by our customers to accurately
forecast their demand, product inventories may not always

                                      13

<PAGE>

correspond to product demand, leading to shortages or surpluses of certain
products. As a result of such inventory imbalances, future inventory
write-downs may occur due to lower of cost or market accounting, excess
inventory, or inventory obsolescence.

BECAUSE FOUNDRY CAPACITY IS LIMITED, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO ENTER INTO COSTLY
LONG-TERM SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS TO SECURE FOUNDRY CAPACITY.

   We currently purchase all of our wafers from outside foundries. Market
conditions could result in wafers being in short supply and prevent us from
having adequate supply to meet our customer requirements. Any prolonged
inability to utilize our foundries because of fire, natural disaster, or
otherwise would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations. If we are not able to obtain additional foundry capacity
as required, our business could be harmed in the following ways: (i) our
relationships with our customers would be harmed and, consequently, our sales
would likely be reduced; and (ii) we may be forced to purchase wafers or
packaging from higher cost suppliers or to pay expediting charges to obtain
additional supply.

   In order to secure additional foundry capacity, we may enter into contracts
that commit us to purchase specified quantities of silicon wafers over extended
periods. In the future, we may not be able to secure capacity with foundries in
a timely fashion or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on terms
favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be
obligated to utilize all of that capacity or incur penalties. Such penalties
may be expensive and could harm our financial results.

WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR SUBCONTRACTORS IN ASIA TO PERFORM KEY MANUFACTURING
FUNCTIONS FOR US.

   We depend on third party subcontractors in Asia for the supply and packaging
of our products. International operations and sales may be subject to political
and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls,
exchange rate fluctuations, and changes in import/export regulations, tariff,
and freight rates. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on our sole and
limited source suppliers, this concentration of suppliers and manufacturing
operations in Asia subjects us to the risks of conducting business
internationally, including political and economic conditions in Asia.
Disruption or termination of our supply or manufacturing could occur, and such
disruptions could harm our business and operating results.

POTENTIAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS AND LITIGATION COULD SUBJECT US TO
SIGNIFICANT LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES AND COULD INVALIDATE OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS.

   Our success depends on our ability to obtain patents and licenses and to
preserve our other intellectual property rights covering our manufacturing
processes, products, and development and testing tools. We seek patent
protection for those inventions and technologies for which we believe such
protection is suitable and is likely to provide a competitive advantage to us.
Notwithstanding our attempts to protect our proprietary rights, we believe that
our future success will depend primarily upon the technical expertise, creative
skills, and management abilities of our officers and key employees rather than
on patent and copyright ownership. We also rely substantially on trade secrets
and proprietary technology to protect our technology and manufacturing
know-how, and work actively to foster continuing technological innovation to
maintain and protect our competitive position.

   The integrated circuit industry is characterized by frequent litigation
regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you
that any patent owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented, or
challenged, that rights granted under the patent will provide competitive
advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will
be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. In addition,
effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited
in certain foreign countries. We cannot assure you that steps taken by us to
protect our intellectual property will be adequate or that our competitors will
not independently develop or patent substantially equivalent or superior
technologies.

                                      14

<PAGE>

   As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers have from
time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third
parties asserting patents, mask work rights, or copyrights on certain of our
products and technologies. In the event third parties were to make a valid
intellectual property claim and a license was not available on commercially
reasonable terms, our operating results could be harmed. Litigation, which
could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources, may also
be necessary to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others.
An unfavorable outcome in any such suit could have an adverse effect on our
future operations and/or liquidity.

STRONG COMPETITION IN THE HIGH-PERFORMANCE INTEGRATED CIRCUIT MARKET MAY HARM
OUR BUSINESS.

   The high-performance integrated circuit industry is highly competitive and
subject to rapid technological change. Significant competitive factors in our
markets include:

  .  product features, reliability, performance, and price,

  .  the diversity and timing of new product introductions,

  .  the emergence of new computer standards and other customer systems,

  .  product quality,

  .  efficiency of production, and

  .  customer support.

   Because of shortened product life cycles and even shorter design-in cycles,
our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to achieve design wins
in next generation systems. In the event that competitors succeed in
supplanting our products, our market share may not be sustainable and net
sales, gross margin, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our
principal competitors include: Agere, AKM Semiconductors, Acer Labs Inc.,
Analog Devices, Broadcom, Conexant, Creative Technologies, ESS Technologies,
Fujitsu DSP, Infineon, Intel, Intersil, LSI Logic, Linear Technology, Mediatek,
Motorola, Philips, SigmaTel, ST Microelectronics, Sunplus, Texas Instruments,
Tripath, Yamaha, and Zoran, many of whom have substantially greater financial
and other resources than we do with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing,
marketing, and distribution of their products. We expect intensified
competition from emerging companies and from customers who develop their own
integrated circuit products. Increased competition could adversely affect our
business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in
the future or that competitive pressures will not adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations. Competitive pressures could
reduce market acceptance of our products and result in price reductions and
increases in expenses that could adversely affect our business and our
financial condition.

   In addition, our future success depends, in part, on the continued service
of our key engineering, marketing, sales, manufacturing, support, and executive
personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate
qualified personnel. The competition for such employees is intense, and the
loss of the services of one or more of these key personnel could adversely
affect our business.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAKE CONTINUED SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENTS IN RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS.

   We must continue to make substantial investments in research and development
to develop new and enhanced products and solutions. If we fail to make
sufficient investments in research and development programs, new technologies
could render our current and planned products obsolete, resulting in the need
to change the focus of our research and development and product strategies, and
disrupting our business significantly.
