ITEM I.  BUSINESS

     This Item contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.  Actual  results could differ  materially  from those  projected in the
forward-looking  statements  as a  result  of the  factors  set  forth  in "Risk
Factors" and elsewhere in this Report.

General

     Cypress  Semiconductor  Corporation  designs,  develops,  manufactures  and
markets a broad line of  high-performance  digital and  mixed-signal  integrated
circuits   for   a   range   of   markets,    including   data   communications,
telecommunications,  computers,  and instrumentation systems. We currently offer
approximately 500 products from our two business  segments;  memory products and
non-memory products. Our products are marketed worldwide through a network of 25
North  American  sales offices,  6 North  American  distributors,  26 U.S. sales
representative  firms,  7 European sales  offices,  2 Japanese sales offices,  2
Chinese sales offices, an office in Singapore,  an office in Korea, an office in
Taiwan, and 39 international sales representative firms. We sell our products to
a wide range of customers,  including Lucent Technologies Inc., Motorola,  Inc.,
Nortel  Networks   Corporation,   Seagate  Technology,   Inc.,  Compaq  Computer
Corporation, 3Com Corporation, IBM, Cisco Systems, Inc. and Sony Corporation. In
1999, international sales accounted for 51% of our total sales.

     Cypress  was  founded  in 1982  and our  initial  strategy  was to  provide
innovative  high-performance  complementary  metal-oxide silicon, referred to as
CMOS, integrated circuits to niche markets that were believed to be too small to
be targeted by the major established international semiconductor  manufacturers.
In 1992,  we modified  our strategy to focus on selected  high-volume  products,
particularly  memory  products,  which  could be brought to market  quickly  and
cost-effectively.  This  strategy  was  successful  until 1996 when the  average
selling  prices of memory  products  began to decline.  To offset the effects of
declining  average  selling  prices  and its  impact  on  revenues  from  memory
products,  we modified our strategy by diversifying  our product mix to focus on
non-memory  products.  We have also directed our sales and marketing  effort and
new product  development  resources,  more  towards the data  communication  and
telecommunication  end markets.  Because of the highly competitive nature of the
semiconductor  industry,  its cyclicality  and  anticipated  pressure on average
selling  prices  over  the  life  of any  particular  product,  our  ability  to
successfully implement this strategy and achieve our revenue, earnings and gross
margin  goals will depend upon a number of factors.  These  factors  include our
ability to:

     o    maintain our position in the high-performance markets;

     o    increase our presence in the more competitive high-volume markets;

     o    continue to  successfully  design and develop new  products  utilizing
          advanced  semiconductor  design and process  technologies  in a timely
          fashion;

     o    improve  manufacturing yields and reduce manufacturing costs and cycle
          time; and

     o    effectively  market  and sell  our  products  in light of  significant
          domestic and international competition.

     Cypress was incorporated in California in December 1982. The initial public
offering of our common stock occurred in May 1986 at which time our common stock
commenced   trading  on  the  Nasdaq  National  Market.  In  February  1987,  we
reincorporated  in Delaware  and on October 17, 1988,  began  listing our common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange.

Products

     We  concentrate  our efforts in two market  segments,  memory  products and
non-memory products. Our memory product segment manufactures integrated circuits
on silicon wafers using leading edge process  technology.  A significant portion
of  the  wafers  we  produce  for  memory   products  is   manufactured  at  our
technologically  advanced,  eight-inch  wafer  production  facility  located  in
Minnesota,  which  we refer  to as Fab 4.  Certain  memory  products  are  often
characterized as commodities, with high unit sales volume and significant shifts
in supply and demand;  these  factors  mean a  potentially  greater  exposure to
fluctuations in average selling price and gross margin. Sales of memory products
are generally  driven by higher  volumes and results of operations  are improved
through advancements in technology and attainment of lower manufacturing costs.


                                     Page 3
<PAGE>


     In contrast,  some  non-memory  products are  manufactured  utilizing  less
technologically advanced processes compared to memory products and are generally
design or  customer  solution  driven.  A majority  of the wafers we produce for
non-memory products are manufactured at our six-inch fab located in Texas, which
we refer to as Fab 2. In  addition,  we purchase  wafers  fabricated  at smaller
geometries from foundries.  Unit sales volume of certain non-memory  products is
generally lower than memory products,  but gross margin is higher.  Future sales
and results of operations of non-memory  products are driven by the introduction
of new  products,  design  wins and  improvements  in  technology.  Because  the
semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, resulting
in products with greater speed,  densities and performance  capabilities  and by
the continuing evolution of process  technologies,  our success will continue to
depend upon the timely  development,  introduction and market  acceptance of new
products in the non-memory products market segment.

     Please refer to our Note 11 to our annual financial  statements included in
this Report for detailed  information about the composition of revenues from our
memory and non-memory product market segments.

Memory Products

     Our memory  products,  which include static random access memory  products,
primarily  serve  the  data  communications,   telecommunications  and  personal
computer markets.

     Static RAM (Static Random Access Memory).  Static RAMs are used for storage
and retrieval of data in data  communication,  telecommunication,  computers and
other electronic systems. Common networking applications include hubs, switches,
routers,  test and measurement  instrumentation,  video and simulation.  Telecom
applications  include  cellular  phones,   pagers,  radios,  global  positioning
satellite systems and cellular base stations.

     The  static  RAM  market  is  characterized  by the  requirements  for many
different densities (number of bits per memory circuit),  organizations  (number
of bits available to the user in a single access of the RAM) and levels of power
consumption  (low power and  ultra-low-power  devices are  required for portable
battery  operated  equipment).  In  addition,  the market is  divided  into fast
asynchronous, slow micro-power and synchronous segments. This differentiation of
the static RAM market when combined with the different RAM features incorporated
by various manufacturers, the need for military, industrial and commercial grade
products,  the need for different  package types,  and the grading of product by
speed and power, produces a complex market structure.

Non-Memory Products

     Non-memory  products  include a variety  of  products  that  serve the data
communications,  telecommunications,  personal computer, PC peripheral, military
and consumer markets.  Non-memory  products include  programmable logic products
and  programming  software,   programmable-skew   clocking,  data  communication
products, computer products, including clocks and universal serial bus, referred
to as USB, microcontrollers and non-volatile memory products.

     PLDs  (Programmable  Logic  Devices).  The  logic in an  electrical  system
performs the non-memory  functions,  such as  floating-point  mathematics or the
organization  and  routing  of  signals  throughout  a  computer  system.   This
constitutes  a  significant  portion  of  the  circuitry  in  most  systems.  We
manufacture   several  families  of  programmable  logic  circuits,   which  are
programmable by the user. PLDs facilitate the replacement of many standard logic
devices with a single device,  thus reducing  package count and cost,  improving
performance and allowing  miniaturization.  Our PLD portfolio consists of a wide
variety of devices  ranging  from  simple PLDs such as the Flash  22V10,  to the
very-high-density  complex  PLDs such as the  Cypress  Ultra37000  and Delta 39K
families.  All our products are  supported  by the Warp(TM)  software  tool set,
which enables  design  description  in either VHDL (very  high-speed  integrated
circuit  hardware  description  language),  an industry  standard  developed  by
Cypress or in Verilog, another industry standard.

     PROMs (Programmable  Read-Only Memories).  Read-only memory, referred to as
ROM, is a memory in which the data is fixed even when the power is off. ROMs are
used to provide  start up data to  computers  when they are turned on. PROMs are
blank ROMs that can be  customized by the customer to fit specific  needs.  They
are used in computer-peripherals, telecommunications systems and instrumentation
equipment which store fixed data that is not to be altered during normal machine
operations.  We have been a supplier of high-performance  CMOS PROMs since 1984.
These early  devices  were the first to combine  the fast memory  access of PROM
with the low power  consumption of CMOS  technology.  We offer a broad family of
high performance  PROMs ranging in density from 4K to 256K bits,  available in a
variety of standard and proprietary user interfaces.


                                     Page 4
<PAGE>


     First-in,  First-out  ("FIFOs").  FIFOs  are used as an  elasticity  buffer
between systems operating at different frequencies.  We offer FIFO memories in a
variety  of  high-bandwidth  synchronous  and  asynchronous  architectures  with
industry-standard  pinouts.  We have  recently  added  32 new x36  FIFOs  to our
portfolio.

     Multi-port Memories. Dual-port and QuadPortTM RAMs are memories that can be
accessed  by  two  or  four  different  processors  or  busses   simultaneously.
Multi-ports  are  ideal  memory  solutions  for   shared-memory   and  switching
applications, including networking switches and routers, cellular base stations,
mass storage devices, and telecommunication equipment. Our family of synchronous
and  asynchronous  multi-port RAMs range in density from 8 Kbit to 1 Mbit in x8,
x9,  x16,  x18,  and x36  configurations.  We further  enhanced  our  leadership
position in multi-ports by introducing the world's first x36 dual-port (FLEx36TM
Dual-port) and the world's first high-density (1-megabit) / high-performance (10
Gbps) QuadPort RAM.

     RoboClock.  Our RoboClock  family of high  performance  programmable  clock
buffers offer very high performance  specifications (i.e. zero propagation delay
and 50/50 duty cycle) and  programmable  features  (i.e.  programmable  skew and
multiple/divide  functions)  allowing  customers to  compensate  for clock skews
arising  from varying  circuit  board trace  lengths and device  set-up and hold
times.

     HOTLink   (High-speed   Optical   Transceiver  Link).  Our  HOTLink  serial
transceivers are the industry  standard products for moving serial data at rates
from 50-400Mbps. These products support a variety of applications and industrial
protocols  including fibre channel,  enterprise system connection,  asynchronous
transfer mode, digital video broadcast,  Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.'s TAXIChip
protocol, generic backplane and point-to-point applications.

     WAN  (Wide  Area   Network)  Our  family  of   high-performance   SONET/SDH
(Synchronous Optical  Network/Synchronous  Digital Hierarchy)  transceivers move
SONET or SDH frames  between  equipment at the SONET/SDH data rates of 51.85Mbps
(OC-1) and 155.52Mbps (OC-3).  Our recent acquisition of Arcus Technology,  Inc.
enhanced our expertise in PDH  (Plesiochronous  Digital Hierarchy) and SONET/SDH
technology and E1-3 mapper products that are currently shipping for revenue.

     Programmable Clocks. We are a leader in the timing technology device market
primarily due to our clocks and clock distribution  circuits.  Clocks' frequency
synthesizers  integrate  essentially all clock  requirements of a microprocessor
based system, thus reducing size, power, consumption and cost. These devices are
widely used in personal  computers,  disk drives,  modems,  digital video disks,
video CD players and home video games.  We are the only  supplier  offering true
field-programmable   clocks,   and  all  our  clock  outputs  have  the  desired
characteristics of high drive, low jitter, low EMI, and low skew.

     FCTs  (Fast  CMOS  Technology).  We offer a full  complement  of FCTs  with
standard logic and bus interface functions in a variety of formats.  FCT devices
are used in a wide  variety of  applications  whenever  the need arises for very
high-speed logic functions.  FCT logic is used in almost all types of high-speed
systems for data/bus management,  buffering, and a variety of other simple logic
functions.  Our logic  choices  include 3.3- and 5-V  products;  high-drive  and
balance  drive  strengths;  8- and 16-bit  organizations,  and numerous  package
options.

     USB (Universal Serial Bus). USB is a four-wire  connection between a PC and
its peripherals  (such as keyboards,  mice,  printers,  joysticks,  scanners and
modems), facilitating an easy-to-use architecture known as "plug and play." This
new standard has been supported by Microsoft Corporation,  Intel Corporation and
other large original equipment  manufacturers,  referred to as OEMs. In 1997, we
entered  into a  strategic  alliance  with  Microsoft  to produce  our first USB
product,  an 8-bit,  RISC-based  microcontroller  for  Microsoft's  new Internet
mouse. In 1999 we acquired Anchor Chips, Inc. to expand our high performance USB
product line.  Also in 1999, we acquired the license to manufacture  Intel's USB
products,  further  expanding  the  USB  product  portfolio.  We  now  make  USB
microcontrollers for a broad range of peripherals from personal computers,  mice
and  keyboards  to high  performance  devices  such as DSL  modems  and  digital
cameras, giving us the broadest USB product portfolio in the industry.

Research and Development

     We place great  emphasis on research  and  development.  This is  partially
reflected by our commitment of significant  management resources to continuously
improve process and product design  development  cycle time. Our current product
strategy  requires rapid  development  of new products  using  emerging  process
technologies  while  minimizing  research  and  development  costs.  We  perform
research and  development  at two levels:  research and  development  related to
process  technology  is  managed  at  the  corporate  level;  and  research  and
development  related to new product design is managed at the operating level, in
concert with our new product design organization.


                                     Page 5
<PAGE>


     The  major  focus of our  process  technology  research  is the  continuous
migration  to  smaller  geometries.   Currently,   we  are  in  the  process  of
transitioning from 0.25-micron to 0.16-micron fabrication  technology.  We began
selling 0.25-micron Static RAM products during the fourth quarter of 1998.

     Our wafer  fabrication  facility  located in San Jose, which we refer to as
Fab 1, is utilized for  research and  development  programs  focusing  mainly on
continuous migration to smaller geometries. Development programs for 0.16-micron
technologies  are  currently in progress in Fab 1. Fab 1 also  develops  process
enhancements  to current  generation  technology.  In fiscal 1999,  we began the
process  of  converting  Fab 1 from  a  six-inch  facility  into  an  eight-inch
facility. This conversion is expected to be completed by June 2000.

    We have a central  design  group  that  focuses  on new  product  design and
improvement of design  methodologies.  This group has ongoing  efforts to reduce
design cycle time and increase first pass yield through  structured re-use of IP
Blocks  from  a  controlled   intellectual  property  library,   development  of
computer-aided design tools and improved design business processes. We currently
have 48 design  teams in place  working  on new  product  designs.  Design  work
primarily occurs at design centers located in: Colorado Springs,  Colorado;  San
Jose, California; San Diego, California;  Woodinville,  Washington; Bloomington,
Minnesota;  Austin,  Texas;  Starkville,  Mississippi;  Nashua,  New  Hampshire;
Bangalore,  India; Basingstoke,  United Kingdom; and Cork, Ireland. In addition,
we have software development teams in: Beaverton,  Oregon;  Lexington,  Kentucky
and San Jose, California

Manufacturing

     In 1999, we continued to manufacture our products at three sub-micron wafer
fabrication facilities located in California, Minnesota and Texas, the principal
facilities  being the latter  two.  These  fabrication  facilities  utilize  our
proprietary  0.25,  0.35,  0.5, 0.65 and  0.8-micron  CMOS,  0.8 and  0.5-micron
BiCMOS, and 0.65-micron Flash technologies. To enhance our competitive position,
we emphasized  programs to reduce  manufacturing  cycle times,  reduce die size,
improve  labor  productivity,   improve  efficient  use  of  capital  resources,
eliminate  manufacturing  steps,  improve defect  densities,  improve yields and
ultimately  lower  manufacturing  costs.  We invested  $57.4  million in 1999 to
increase the capacity and  capability of our primary wafer  fabrication  plants,
Fab 2 and Fab 4. We have also continued to utilize various  foundries to augment
production  output to respond to  increasing  market demand and focus on RAM and
BiCMOS technologies in our own wafer fabrication plants.

     A significant  portion of our assembly and test  operations is performed by
our highly  automated  assembly  and test  facility  in the  Philippines,  which
accounted   for  46%  of  our  1999  output,   and  through   various   offshore
subcontractors.  Our Philippines facility focuses its investments in high volume
products and packages where our ability to significantly  leverage manufacturing
costs is high. The Philippines plant currently has capability for numerous types
of packaging and will be developing capability for several other packages in the
near  future.  In 1999,  we  invested  $17.6  million  in  capital to expand our
Philippines'  manufacturing  capability with  state-of-the  art equipment.  When
fully  utilized,  this plant is  expected  to provide  approximately  65% of our
assembly and test manufacturing capacity.

     The complicated  nature of our wafer fabrication  process often resulted in
certain   wafers  being   rejected  or  individual  die  on  each  wafer  to  be
non-functional,  adversely affecting  manufacturing yields. Similar yield losses
may be  experienced  in the  assembly  and  test  phase  of  manufacturing.  Our
philosophy  is to prevent the yield loss and/or  quality  problems to the extent
possible through analytical and statistical  manufacturing controls. We test our
products at various stages in the fabrication,  assembly and test processes.  We
perform  high  temperature  burn-in  testing as well as  continuous  reliability
monitoring on all products,  and conduct  numerous  quality control  inspections
throughout the entire production flow using quality-control  analytic equipment.
This combination of manufacturing controls,  product testing and quality control
inspections  is intended  to reduce  costs while  maintaining  an  uninterrupted
supply of product.

Marketing and Sales

     We use four  channels to sell our  products:  direct OEM sales by our sales
force;  direct OEM sales by manufacturing  representative  firms;  sales through
domestic  distributors;  and sales through  international  trading companies and
representative  firms. Our marketing and sales efforts are organized around four
regions: North America, Europe, Japan and Asia/Pacific. We also have a strategic
accounts  group,  which is  responsible  for specific  customers  with worldwide
operations.  We augment our sales effort with field application  engineers,  who
are specialists in our product  portfolio and work with customers to "design in"
our  products  for  their  systems.  Field  application  engineers  also help us
identify emerging markets and new products.


                                     Page 6
<PAGE>


     International  revenues  accounted  for 51% of our total  revenues  in 1999
compared to 45% in 1998 and 39% in 1997,  respectively.  Please refer to Note 11
to our annual  financial  statements  included  with this Report for  additional
information on geographic distribution of our revenues.

     We  typically  warrant  our  products  against  defects  in  materials  and
workmanship  for a period of one year and that  product  warranty  is  generally
limited to a refund of the original purchase price of the product.

Backlog

     Our sales are  typically  made  pursuant  to standard  purchase  orders for
delivery of catalog products.  Generally, customer relationships are not subject
to long-term contracts.  Products to be delivered and delivery schedules,  under
purchase orders outstanding from time to time, are frequently revised to reflect
changes in customer needs. For these reasons, our backlog at any particular date
is not  representative  of actual sales for any succeeding period and we believe
that our backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future revenues.

Competition

     We face  competition  from  other  domestic  and  foreign  high-performance
integrated  circuit  manufacturers,  many of which have  advanced  technological
capabilities  and have increased their  participation in the markets in which we
operate.  We  compete  with  a  large  number  of  companies  primarily  in  the
telecommunications,  data communications,  personal computer,  personal computer
peripheral and military  markets.  Competitors,  including  Altera  Corporation,
Hitachi, Integrated Device Technology, Inc., Integrated Silicon Solutions, Inc.,
Motorola,  Inc., Samsung, Texas Instruments Incorporated and Xilinx, Inc, target
certain markets and compete directly with our products.  Competition is based on
various factors that can vary among products and markets.  These factors include
design and quality of the products, product performance, price and service.

     The  semiconductor   industry  is  intensely   competitive.   This  intense
competition results in a difficult  operating  environment for most companies in
the industry, including Cypress. This environment is characterized by erosion of
product sale prices over the lives of each product,  rapid technological change,
limited product life cycles and strong domestic and foreign  competition in many
markets.  Our  ability  to  compete  successfully  in a  rapidly  evolving  high
performance  end  of the  semiconductor  technology  spectrum  depends  on  many
factors, including:

o    our success in developing new products and manufacturing technologies;

o    the delivery performance, quality and price of our products;

o    the diversity of our product line;

o    the  cost  effectiveness  of our  design,  development,  manufacturing  and
     marketing efforts;

o    the pace at which  customers  incorporate  our products into their systems,
     and

o    the number and nature of our competitors and general economic conditions.

     We believe that we currently compete  effectively in the above areas to the
extent  they are within our  control,  however,  given the pace at which  events
change in the  industry,  our current  abilities  are not a guarantee  of future
success.  If we are not able to compete  successfully in this  environment,  our
business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected.

Patents and Licenses

     We  currently  have 368 patents and  approximately  330  additional  patent
applications on file with the United States Patent and Trademark  Office and are
preparing  to file more patent  applications.  In  addition  to factors  such as
innovation,  technological  expertise and experienced personnel, we believe that
patents  are  becoming  increasingly  important  to  remain  competitive  in the
industry and we have an active  program to acquire  additional  patent and other
intellectual property protection.

     We have, and in the future may continue to, enter into  technology  license
agreements  with third  parties that give those parties the right to use patents
and other technology  developed by us. Some of these agreements also give us the
right to use patents and other  technologies  developed  by such other  parties,
some of which involve payment of royalties.


                                     Page 7
<PAGE>


     There can be no assurance that patents owned by us will not be invalidated,
circumvented or challenged,  or that the rights granted  thereunder will provide
competitive  advantage  to us. We are,  and may in the  future be,  involved  in
litigation  with respect to alleged  infringement  or involved in  litigation to
enforce our intellectual  property  rights.  There can also be no assurance that
license  agreements  will  continue  to  be  available  to  us  on  commercially
reasonable terms in the future.

Employees

     As of  January  2,  2000,  we and our  subsidiaries  had  3,810  employees,
compared to 3,030 at the end of fiscal 1998.  In 1998, we laid-off 363 employees
located  in Fab 2 in  Texas,  Fab 3 in  Minnesota  and our  test  operations  in
Thailand  in  conjunction  with our  1998  restructuring  activity.  None of our
employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we ever
experienced any work stoppages.

Risk Factors

     Except for the historical  information  contained herein, the discussion in
this 10-K  report  contains  forward-looking  statements  within the  meaning of
Section  27A of the  Securities  Act of 1933,  as  amended,  including,  but not
limited to,  statements as to the future  operating  results and business plans,
that  involve  risks  and  uncertainties.  We use such  words as  "anticipated,"
"believes,"  "expects," "future," "intends," and similar expressions to identify
forward-looking  statements.  Our actual  results could differ  materially  from
those anticipated in these forward-looking  statements for any reason, including
the  risks  described  below and  elsewhere  in this  Form  10-K.  If any of the
following risks actually occur, our business,  financial condition and operating
results could be seriously harmed.

Our future operating results are unusually likely to fluctuate and therefore may
fail to meet expectations.

     Our  operating  results have varied  widely in the past and may continue to
fluctuate in the future.  In addition,  our operating results may not follow any
past trends.  Our future  operating  results will depend on many factors and may
fluctuate and fail to meet our  expectations or those of others for a variety of
reasons, including the following:

o    the intense competitive pricing pressure to which our products are subject,
     which can lead to rapid and unexpected declines in average selling prices;

o    the complexity of our  manufacturing  processes and the  sensitivity of our
     production  costs to declines  in  manufacturing  yields,  which make yield
     problems both possible and costly when they occur; and

o    the need for constant,  rapid, new product  introductions  which present an
     ongoing  design and  manufacturing  challenge,  which can be  significantly
     impacted by even relatively minor errors,  and which may result in products
     never achieving expected market demand.

     As a result  of  these  or other  factors  we  could  fail to  achieve  our
expectations as to future revenues, gross profit and income from operations. Any
downward  fluctuation  or failure to meet  expectations  will  likely  adversely
affect the value of your investment in Cypress.

     In  addition,  because we  recognize  revenues  from sales to our  domestic
distributors  only when  these  distributors  make a sale to  customers,  we are
highly  dependent on the accuracy of their resale  estimates.  The occurrence of
inaccurate  estimates  also  contributes  to the  difficulty in  predicting  our
quarterly revenue and results of operations.

We face  periods  of  industry-wide  semiconductor  over-supply  that  harm  our
results.

     The  semiconductor  industry has  historically  been  characterized by wide
fluctuations   in  the  demand  for,  and  supply  of,   semiconductors.   These
fluctuations  have  helped  produce  many  occasions  when supply and demand for
semiconductors  have not  been in  balance.  In the  past,  these  industry-wide
fluctuations  in  demand,  which  have  resulted  in  under-utilization  of  our
manufacturing  capacity,  have  harmed our  operating  results.  In some  cases,
industry downturns with these  characteristics  have lasted more than a year. If
these  cycles  continue,  they  will  seriously  harm  our  business,  financial
condition and results of operations.

Our financial  results could be seriously harmed if the markets in which we sell
our products do not grow.


                                     Page 8
<PAGE>


     Our  continued  success  depends in large part on the  continued  growth of
various  electronics  industries  that  use our  semiconductors,  including  the
following industries:

o    data communications and telecommunications equipment;

o    computers and computer related peripherals;

o    automotive electronics;

o    industrial controls; and

o    customer electronics equipment and military equipment.

     A  significant   portion  of  our  products  is   incorporated   into  data
communications and  telecommunications  end-products.  Any decline in the demand
for networking  applications,  mass storage,  telecommunications,  cellular base
stations,  cellular  handsets  and other  personal  communication  devices  that
incorporate our products could seriously harm our business,  financial condition
and  operating  results.  In addition,  certain of our  products,  including USB
microcontrollers,  high-frequency  clocks and static RAMs, are incorporated into
computer and  computer-related  products,  which have  historically  experienced
significant  fluctuations in demand.  We may also be seriously  harmed by slower
growth in the other markets in which we sell our products.

We are affected by a general pattern of product price decline and  fluctuations,
which can harm our business.

     Even in the absence of an industry downturn,  the average selling prices of
our products have  historically  decreased  during the products'  lives,  and we
expect  this trend to  continue.  In order to offset the average  selling  price
decreases,  we attempt to decrease  manufacturing costs of our products,  and to
introduce new, higher priced products that  incorporate  advanced  features.  If
these efforts are not successful or do not occur in a timely  manner,  or if our
newly introduced products do not gain market acceptance, our business, financial
condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.

     In addition to following the general pattern of decreasing  average selling
prices, the selling prices for certain products,  particularly  commodity static
RAM products,  fluctuate  significantly  with real and perceived  changes in the
balance of supply and demand for these products.  Growth in the worldwide supply
of static  RAMs in recent  periods  resulted  in a decrease  in average  selling
prices  for such  products.  In the  event we are  unable to  decrease  per unit
manufacturing  costs at a rate equal to or faster than the rate at which average
selling  prices  continue to decline,  our  business,  financial  condition  and
results of  operations  will be  seriously  harmed.  Furthermore,  we expect our
competitors  to invest in new  manufacturing  capacity  and achieve  significant
manufacturing  yield  improvements  in  the  future.  These  developments  could
dramatically  increase the worldwide supply of static RAM products and result in
associated downward pressure on prices.

We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, and may
face significant expenses as a result of ongoing or future litigation.

     Protection of our intellectual  property rights is essential to keep others
from  copying  the  innovations  that are  central  to our  existing  and future
products.  Consequently,  we may become  involved in  litigation  to enforce our
patents or other intellectual  property rights, to protect our trade secrets and
know-how,  to  determine  the  validity  or scope of the  proprietary  rights of
others,  or to defend against claims of invalidity.  This type of litigation can
be expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose.

     Also, we are now and may again become  involved in  litigation  relating to
alleged  infringement  by us of others' patents or other  intellectual  property
rights.  This type of  litigation  is  frequently  expensive to both the winning
party and the losing party and takes up significant amounts of management's time
and attention.  In addition, if we lose such a lawsuit, a court could require us
to pay substantial  damages and/or royalties or prohibit us from using essential
technologies.  For these  and  other  reasons,  this  type of  litigation  could
seriously  harm our business,  financial  condition  and results of  operations.
Also,  although  we  may  seek  to  obtain  a  license  under  a  third  party's
intellectual  property  rights  in order to bring an end to  certain  claims  or
actions  asserted  against  us, we may not be able to obtain  such a license  on
reasonable terms or at all.

     We have entered into technology  license agreements with third parties that
give those  parties the right to use patents and other  technology  developed by
us, and that give us the right to use patents and other technology  developed by
them. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into these kinds of licensing
arrangements in the future. It is possible  however,  that licenses we want will
not be available to us on  commercially  reasonable  terms.  If we lose existing
licenses to key  technology,  or are unable to enter into new licenses  which we
deem  important,  our  business,  financial  condition and results of operations
could be seriously harmed.


                                     Page 9
<PAGE>


     It is critical to our success that we be able to prevent  competitors  from
copying our innovations,  we therefore intend to continue to seek patent,  trade
secret   and  mask  work   protection   for  our   semiconductor   manufacturing
technologies.  The  process  of  seeking  patent  protection  can  be  long  and
expensive,  and we  cannot  be  certain  that any  currently  pending  or future
applications  will actually result in issued  patents,  or that, even if patents
are issued,  they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide  meaningful
protection or any commercial  advantage to us.  Furthermore,  others may develop
technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around the
patents we own.

     We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through
confidentiality  agreements  with our employees,  consultants and third parties.
However, these parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate
remedies for any breach.  Also,  others may come to know about or determine  our
trade  secrets  through a variety of methods.  In addition,  the laws of certain
territories  in which we  develop,  manufacture  or sell  our  products  may not
protect our  intellectual  property rights to the same extent as the laws of the
United States.

Our  financial  results  could  be  adversely  impacted  if we fail to  develop,
introduce   and  sell  new  products  or  fail  to  develop  and  implement  new
manufacturing technologies.

     Like many  semiconductor  companies,  which frequently  operate in a highly
competitive,  quickly  changing  environment  marked  by rapid  obsolescence  of
existing  products,  our future  success  depends on our  ability to develop and
introduce new products that  customers  choose to buy. We introduce  significant
numbers of product each year,  which are an important  source of revenue for us.
If we fail to compete and  introduce  new product  designs in a timely manner or
are  unable to  manufacture  products  according  to the  requirements  of these
designs  (discussed  more  below),  or if  our  customers  do  not  successfully
introduce new systems or products  incorporating  ours, or market demand for our
new products does not exist as anticipated,  our business,  financial  condition
and results of operations could be seriously harmed.

     For Cypress and many other  semiconductor  companies,  introduction  of new
products  is a major  manufacturing  challenge.  The  new  products  the  market
requires  tend to be  increasingly  complex,  incorporating  more  functions and
operating at faster speeds than prior products.  Increasing complexity generally
requires smaller features on a chip. This makes manufacturing new generations of
products  substantially  more  difficult  than  prior  generations.  Ultimately,
whether we can  successfully  introduce these and other new products  depends on
our ability to develop and implement new ways of  manufacturing  semiconductors.
If we are unable to design, develop,  manufacture,  market and sell new products
successfully,  our business, financial condition and results of operations would
be seriously harmed.

Interruptions  in the  availability  of raw  materials  can  seriously  harm our
financial performance.

     Our semiconductor  manufacturing operations require raw materials that must
meet exacting  standards.  We generally have more than one source  available for
these  materials,  but there are only a limited  number of suppliers  capable of
delivering  certain raw  materials  that meet our  standards.  If we need to use
other companies as suppliers,  they must go through a qualification  process. In
addition,  the raw  materials we need for our business  could become  scarcer as
worldwide demand for  semiconductors  increases.  Interruption of our sources of
raw materials could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

Problems  in the  performance  of other  companies  we hire to  perform  certain
manufacturing tasks can seriously harm our financial performance.

     A high percentage of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our
manufacturing  facility  located  in the  Philippines.  We rely  on  independent
subcontractors to assemble,  package and test the balance of our products.  This
reliance involves certain risks, because we have less control over manufacturing
quality and delivery  schedules,  whether these companies have adequate capacity
to meet our needs and  whether or not they  discontinue  or  phase-out  assembly
processes  we  require.  We cannot be  certain  that these  subcontractors  will
continue  to  assemble,  package  and  test  products  for us,  and it  might be
difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so.

The complex nature of our manufacturing  activities makes us highly  susceptible
to  manufacturing  problems  and these  problems can have  substantial  negative
impact on us when they occur.

     Making  semiconductors  is a highly complex and precise process,  requiring
production  in  a  tightly  controlled,  clean  environment.   Even  very  small
impurities in our manufacturing materials, difficulties in the wafer fabrication
process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors
can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous chips on
each wafer to


                                    Page 10
<PAGE>


be nonfunctional.  We may experience problems in achieving an acceptable success
rate  in  the  manufacture  of  wafers,   and  the  likelihood  of  facing  such
difficulties  is higher in connection  with the transition to new  manufacturing
methods.  The  interruption  of wafer  fabrication  or the  failure  to  achieve
acceptable  manufacturing  yields at any of our facilities  would seriously harm
our  business,  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.  We may also
experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and test operations and in the
introduction of new packaging materials.

We may not be able to use all of our existing or future manufacturing  capacity,
which can negatively impact our business.

     We have  spent,  and expect to continue  to spend,  significant  amounts of
money  to  upgrade  and  increase  our  wafer  fabrication,  assembly  and  test
manufacturing  capability and capacity.  If we do not need some of this capacity
and capability for any of a variety of reasons, including inadequate demand or a
significant  shift in the mix of product orders that makes our existing capacity
and capability  inadequate or in excess of our actual needs, our fixed costs per
semiconductor  produced will increase,  which will harm us. In addition,  if the
need for more advanced products requires accelerated  conversion to technologies
capable of manufacturing semiconductors having smaller features, or requires the
use of larger wafers,  we are likely to face higher  operating  expenses and may
need to write-off capital equipment made obsolete by the technology  conversion,
either of which could seriously harm our business and results of operations.

Our operations and financial results could be severely harmed by certain natural
disasters.

     Our  headquarters and some  manufacturing  facilities and some of our major
vendors'  facilities  are  located  near  major  earthquake  faults.  If a major
earthquake or other natural disaster occurs,  we could suffer damages that could
seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our business,  results of operations  and financial  condition will be seriously
harmed if we fail to successfully compete in our highly competitive industry and
markets.

     The  semiconductor   industry  is  intensely   competitive.   This  intense
competition results in a difficult  operating  environment for us and most other
semiconductor companies that is marked by erosion of average selling prices over
the lives of each product,  rapid  technological  change,  limited  product life
cycles and strong  domestic and foreign  competition in many markets.  A primary
cause of this highly competitive environment is the strength of our competitors.
The  industry  consists  of  major  domestic  and  international   semiconductor
companies,  many of  which  have  substantially  greater  financial,  technical,
marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. We face competition from
other domestic and foreign  high-performance  integrated circuit  manufacturers,
many of which have advanced technological  capabilities and have increased their
participation  in markets that are  important to us. If we are unable to compete
successfully in this environment,  our business, operating results and financial
condition will be seriously harmed.

     Our  ability  to  compete   successfully  in  the  rapidly   evolving  high
performance  portion of the  semiconductor  technology  industry depends on many
factors, including:

o    our success in developing new products and manufacturing technologies;

o    the quality and price of our products;

o    the diversity of our product line; o the cost  effectiveness of our design,
     development, manufacturing and marketing efforts;

o    the pace at which  customers  incorporate  our products into their systems,
     and

o    the number and nature of our competitors and general economic conditions.

     Although we believe we currently compete  effectively in the above areas to
the  extent  they are  within  our  control,  given  the pace of  change  in the
industry, our current abilities are not a guarantee of future success.

We must  build  semiconductors  based on our  forecasts  of  demand,  and if our
forecasts are inaccurate, we may have large amounts of unsold products or we may
not be able to fill all orders.

     We order materials and build semiconductors based primarily on our internal
forecasts, and secondarily on existing orders, which may be cancelled under many
circumstances.  Consequently,  we depend on our forecasts to determine inventory
levels for our products and the amount of  manufacturing  capacity that we need.
Because our markets are  volatile and subject to rapid  technological  and price
changes,  our  forecasts  may be  wrong,  and we may make too many or too few of
certain products or have too much or too little  manufacturing  capacity.  Also,
our  customers  frequently  place  orders  requesting  product  delivery  almost
immediately  after the order is


                                    Page 11
<PAGE>


made,  which makes  forecasting  customer demand even more difficult.  The above
factors also make it difficult to forecast quarterly  operating  results.  If we
are unable to predict  accurately the appropriate  amount of product required to
meet  customer  demand,  our  business,   financial  condition  and  results  of
operations could be seriously harmed.

We must spend  heavily on equipment to stay  competitive,  and will be adversely
impacted if we are unable to secure financing for such investments.

     In order to remain competitive  semiconductor  manufacturers generally must
spend  heavily on equipment to maintain or increase  manufacturing  capacity and
capability. We have budgeted for approximately $250.0 million in expenditures on
equipment in 2000 and anticipate  significant continuing capital expenditures in
subsequent  years. In the past, we have reinvested a substantial  portion of our
cash flow from  operations  in  capacity  expansion  and  improvement  programs.
However,  our cash flows from  operations  depend  primarily on average  selling
prices,  which  generally  decline over time,  and on the  per-unit  cost of our
products.

     If we are unable to decrease  costs for our  products at a rate at least as
fast as the rate of the decline in selling prices for such products,  we may not
be able to  generate  enough cash flow from  operations  to maintain or increase
manufacturing capability and capacity as necessary. In such a situation we would
need  to  seek  financing  from  external  sources  to  satisfy  our  needs  for
manufacturing equipment and, if cash flow from operations declines too much, for
operational cash needs as well. Such financing, however, may not be available on
terms  which  are  satisfactory  to us or at all,  in which  case our  business,
financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed.

We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel,  and any loss of, or
inability to attract, such personnel would harm us.

     To a greater degree than most  non-technology  companies,  we depend on the
efforts and abilities of certain key  management  and technical  personnel.  Our
future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel,  and
to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product and
process  engineers.  We compete  for these  individuals  with  other  companies,
academic institutions, government entities and other organizations.  Competition
for  such  personnel  is  intense  and we may not be  successful  in  hiring  or
retaining new or existing  qualified  personnel.  If we lose existing  qualified
personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel as needed, our business,
financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.

We face additional  problems and  uncertainties  associated  with  international
operations that could seriously harm us.

     International  sales  represented  approximately 51% of our revenues during
fiscal 1999 and  approximately  45% of our  revenues  during  fiscal  1998.  Our
offshore assembly and test operations,  as well as our international sales, face
risks frequently associated with foreign operations, including:

o    currency exchange fluctuations,

o    political instability,

o    changes in local economic conditions,

o    the devaluation of local currencies,

o    import and export controls, and

o    changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates.

     To the extent any such risks materialize, our business, financial condition
and results of operations could be seriously harmed.

We are subject to many different environmental regulations,  and compliance with
them may be costly.

     We are subject to many different  governmental  regulations  related to the
storage,  use, discharge and disposal of toxic,  volatile or otherwise hazardous
chemicals used in our manufacturing  process.  Compliance with these regulations
can be costly.  In addition,  over the last several years, the public has paid a
great deal of  attention to the  potentially  negative  environmental  impact of
semiconductor  manufacturing  operations.  This  attention and other factors may
lead to changes in  environmental  regulations  that could  force us to purchase
additional equipment or comply with other potentially costly requirements. If we
fail  to  control  the use of,  or to  adequately  restrict  the  discharge  of,
hazardous  substances  under  present  or  future  regulations,  we  could  face
substantial liability or suspension of our manufacturing operations, which could
seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.


                                    Page 12
<PAGE>


We depend on third  parties to  transport  our  products  and could be harmed if
these parties experience problems.

     We rely on  independent  carriers and freight  haulers to move our products
between  manufacturing  plants and our customers.  We have limited  control over
these  parties;  however,  any transport or delivery  problems  because of their
errors,  or because  of  unforeseen  interruptions  in their  activities  due to
factors such as strikes, political instability, natural disasters and accidents,
could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations
and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers.

We may fail to integrate our business and  technologies  with those of companies
that we have recently acquired and that we may acquire in the future.

     We completed four  acquisitions  in calendar 1999,  recently  announced the
pending acquisition of Galvantech,  Inc. and may pursue additional  acquisitions
in  the  future.  If  we  fail  to  successfully  or  properly  integrate  these
businesses,   our  quarterly  and  annual  results  may  be  seriously   harmed.
Integrating  additional  businesses,  products and services  could be expensive,
time-consuming and a strain on our resources.  Specific issues that we face with
regard to prior and future acquisitions include:

o    the difficulty of integrating acquired technology or products;

o    the difficulty of assimilating the personnel of the acquired companies;

o    the difficulty of  coordinating  and integrating  geographically  dispersed
     operations;

o    our ability to retain customers of the acquired company;

o    the  potential  disruption  of our  on-going  business and  distraction  of
     management;

o    the maintenance of brand recognition of acquired businesses;

o    the  failure  to  successfully  develop  acquired  in-process   technology,
     resulting in the impairment of amounts currently  capitalized as intangible
     assets;

o    unanticipated expenses related to technology integration;

o    the  maintenance  of  uniform  standards,   corporate  cultures,  controls,
     procedures and policies;

o    the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of
     any integration of new management personnel; and

o    the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses.

We face a number of unknown risks associated with year 2000 problems.

     The year 2000  computer  issue  creates a variety of risks for us. The year
2000 computer problem refers to the potential for system and processing failures
of date-related data as a result of computer-controlled systems using two digits
rather than four to define the applicable year. For example,  computer  programs
that have  time-sensitive  software may recognize a date  represented as "00" as
the year 1900 rather than the year 2000.  This could result in a system  failure
or  miscalculations  causing  disruptions of operations,  including  among other
things,   interruptions  in  manufacturing,   design  and  process   development
operations,  disruptions in processing business transactions, and disruptions in
other  normal  business  activities.  Issues  related to the year 2000  computer
problem could still arise. The risks involve:

o    potential  warranty or other claims by customers  with respect to errors in
     our products;

o    errors in systems we use to run our business;

o    errors in systems used by our suppliers;

o    errors in systems used by customers; and


                                    Page 13
<PAGE>


o    potential  reduced  spending by  customers  as a result of  concerns  about
     potential year 2000 problems.

     We have  designed  most of our products to be year 2000  compliant and have
developed  corrective  measures  for other  products  that  were not  originally
designed to be year 2000 compliant. However, our products may be integrated into
or used in  conjunction  with  products  supplied  by other  vendors.  We cannot
evaluate  whether all of the products of other vendors are year 2000  compliant.
We may face claims based on year 2000 problems in other  companies'  products or
based on issues arising from the integration or use of multiple products. We may
in the future be required  to defend our  products  in legal  proceedings  which
could be expensive regardless of the merits of these claims.

     If our suppliers,  vendors, partners,  customers and service providers fail
to  correct  their  year  2000  problems,  these  failures  could  result  in an
interruption in, or a failure of, our normal business  activities or operations.
If a year 2000 problem  occurs,  it may be difficult to determine  which party's
products have caused the problem.  These failures could interrupt our operations
and damage our  relationships  with  customers.  Due to the general  uncertainty
inherent in the year 2000 problem  resulting  from the readiness of  third-party
suppliers  and  vendors,  we are  unable  to  determine  at  this  time  whether
third-party  year 2000 failures  could harm our business,  results of operations
and financial condition.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Certain  information  regarding each of Cypress's current executive officers
is set forth below:

                                                                       Executive
                                                                        Officer
        Name         Age                Position                         Since
- ------------------   ---  -------------------------------------------   -------
T. J. Rodgers        52   President and Chief Executive Officer            1982

Antonio R. Alvarez   43   Executive  Vice  President,  Memory  Products    1993
                          Division and Research and Development

Emmanuel Hernandez   44   Executive   Vice   President,   Finance   and    1993
                          Administration, Chief Financial Officer

J. Daniel McCranie   56   Executive Vice President, Marketing and Sales    1993


     Except as set forth below,  each of Cypress's  executive  officers has been
engaged in his principal  occupation described above during the past five years.
There is no family  relationship  between any director or  executive  officer of
Cypress.

     T.J. Rodgers is a co-founder of Cypress  Semiconductor  Corporation and has
been its president and chief executive officer since 1982. Mr. Rodgers serves as
a director of C-Cube Corporation.

     Antonio  R.  Alvarez  joined  Cypress  in May  1987 as a  senior  technical
engineer.  Mr. Alvarez was  transferred to Cypress's  former  subsidiary,  Aspen
Semiconductor Corporation, in April 1988 as the manager of BiCMOS technology. In
October 1989, Mr. Alvarez  returned to the corporate  office as Vice  President,
Research and Development.  In February 1993, Mr. Alvarez also became responsible
for Fab I when it was merged with the research and development department. Prior
to joining  Cypress in 1987,  Mr.  Alvarez  worked in  various  engineering  and
management  positions at Motorola  Corporation  from September 1979 through July
1987.  His last  position at Motorola  was as a senior  member of the  technical
staff.

     Emmanuel Hernandez joined Cypress in June 1993 as Corporate Controller.  In
January  1994,  Mr.  Hernandez  was  promoted  to Vice  President,  Finance  and
Administration,  and Chief  Financial  Officer.  Prior to joining  Cypress,  Mr.
Hernandez  held  various   financial   positions  with  National   Semiconductor
Corporation from 1976 through 1993.

     J. Daniel  McCranie  joined  Cypress in October  1993 as Vice  President of
Marketing and Sales.  Prior to joining  Cypress,  Mr. McCranie was President and
CEO of SEEQ  Technology  from 1989  through  1993.  Mr.  McCranie  also held the
position of Vice  President of Sales and Marketing for SEEQ for five years prior
to becoming President and CEO. Previously, he held marketing and sales positions
at Harris Semiconductor, AMD, American Microsystems and Signetics.
