ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

        The discussion in this report contains forward-looking statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties, including,
but not limited to, statements as to future operating results and business
plans, our prospects and the prospects of the semiconductor industry generally,
and statements as to the cost savings and productivity improvements, the
proportion of parts assembled in our Philippines factory, pressure on and trends
for average selling prices, investments by competitors in manufacturing capacity
and productivity yields, entering into licensing arrangements with third
parties, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, the financing of SunPower
Corporation, the impact of SunPower Corporation on future financial results, the
general economy and its impact to the market segments we serve, changing
environment and the cycles of the semiconductor industry, competitive pricing
and the rate at which new products are introduced, our expected product revenue
in the automotive sector, our outlook for fiscal 2004, our expected revenue for
fiscal 2004, our expected improvements in gross margin in fiscal 2004, our
expectations to generate positive cash flow from operations in fiscal 2004,
successful integration and achieving the objectives of the acquired businesses,
cost goals emanating from manufacturing efficiencies, adequacy of cash and
working capital, our intention with respect to terminating the conversion rights
associated with our $600 million convertible subordinated notes, and other
liquidity risks. We use words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects,"
"future," "intends" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking
statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in
the forward-looking statements for any reason, including the factors set forth
in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report.

GENERAL

        We design, develop, manufacture and market a broad line of
high-performance digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits for a broad range
of markets including networking, wireless infrastructure and handsets,
computation, consumer, automotive, and industrial. We have four product
divisions and four subsidiaries organized into two business segments -- Memory
and Non-Memory. Our product divisions -- Memory, Data Communications, Timing
Technology and Personal Communications -- and our four subsidiaries -- Silicon
Light Machines, Cypress MicroSystems, Silicon Magnetic Systems and SunPower
Corporation -- are the core internal reporting entities, with all product
divisions except Memory, and all subsidiaries aggregated into our Non-Memory
business. In addition, we report on our product offerings by market segment in
order to sharpen our focus on serving end markets. These four market segments
are: Wide Area Networks and Storage Area Networks, which focus on networking and
telecommunications applications; Wireless Infrastructure and Wireless Terminals,
which focus on wireless base stations and handsets; Computation and Consumer,
which focus on gaming, video, personal computer, and other consumer
applications; and Cypress subsidiaries, which focus on emerging technologies and
related market development. Refer to Note 20 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information related to our business and market segments.

        Cypress was incorporated in California in December 1982. The initial
public offering of our common stock occurred in May 1986, at which time our
common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ National Market. In February 1987,
we reincorporated in Delaware and on October 17, 1988, we listed our common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange.

        Cypress makes available its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 free of charge on our website, www.cypress.com,
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with or furnish such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

PRODUCTS

        Cypress focuses on the design and manufacture of higher-margin,
proprietary products with advanced features and functions, which tend to be more
resistant to market volatility and trends than commodity type products. Cypress
develops proprietary and higher-value products both in its Memory and Non-Memory
businesses. Cypress also designs, manufactures and sells commodity type
products. We sell wireless, wireline and other products to leading manufacturers
in networking, wireless infrastructure and handsets, computation, consumer,
automotive, industrial and other business segments.

        A significant number of the wafers we produce for memory products are
manufactured at our technologically advanced, 8-inch wafer fabrication facility
in Bloomington, Minnesota, which we refer to as Fab 4. A majority of the wafers
we produce for non-memory products are manufactured at our 6-inch production
facility in Round Rock, Texas, which we refer to as Fab 2. For non-core
technologies, Cypress purchases wafers from outside facilities, or foundries, a
practice that is known as outsourcing. Outsourcing enables Cypress to quickly
bring to market products manufactured with processes that are different than the
high-volume processes needed to maximize the profitability of its fabrication
facilities. These products generally target markets where fast time-to-market
and leading-edge feature sets are the primary criteria for success.

                                     Page 3
<PAGE>

        Please refer to Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements
included in this report for detailed information about the composition of
revenues from our Memory and Non-Memory products business segments.

MEMORY PRODUCTS

        Our Memory business--driven by our Memory Products Division--designs and
produces static random access memories (SRAMs). These memories are used to store
and retrieve data in networking, wireless infrastructure and handsets,
computation, consumer, automotive, industrial and other electronic systems. Many
Cypress SRAMs are manufactured with leading-edge process technology. Migrating
to advanced processes and reducing manufacturing costs continue to be important
criteria for success in the memory business, particularly in commodity products.

        The SRAM market is characterized by the need for many different
combinations of density (number of bits per memory circuit), organization
(number of bits available to the user in a single access of the RAM),
performance characteristics (number of bits transferred per cycle) and levels of
power consumption (low-power and ultra-low-power devices required for portable,
battery-operated equipment). Cypress offers a broad selection of SRAM products,
including high-speed synchronous SRAMs, high-performance MicroPower(TM) SRAMs
and fast asynchronous SRAMs. Cypress's memory portfolio includes the following
devices:

        Double Data Rate (DDR) SRAMs. DDR SRAMs target network applications and
servers that operate at data rates up to 400 MHz. Initial product densities
include 18-Mbit devices with a variety of input/output (I/O) voltages, bus
widths and package options.

        Fast Asynchronous SRAMs. Cypress markets a wide selection of fast
asynchronous SRAMs with densities ranging from 16 Kbits to 16 Mbits. Our fast
asynchronous portfolio includes the high-performance 16-bit-wide and 24-bit-wide
families, which are optimized for the latest generation of fast digital signal
processors. These memories are available in many combinations of bus widths,
packages and temperature ranges.

        More Battery Life(TM) (MoBL(R)) and MicroPower SRAMs. Cypress's More
Battery Life SRAMs, the flagship of our low-power memory product line,
significantly increase battery life and talk time in wireless products such as
cellular phones. MoBL and other Cypress MicroPower devices rank among the
industry's lowest-power devices. An increasing share of Cypress's micropower
business comes from pseudo-SRAM (PSRAM) products with a one-transistor (1T)
architecture. These products offer higher density than standard six-transistor
cells at a lower cost. The demand for 1T products is being driven by
next-generation wireless devices with more robust features. Cypress also has
partnered with Micron Technology Inc. and Infineon Technology AG in the
CellularRAM(TM) consortium to develop multiple generations of low-power PSRAMs
for wireless devices.

        No Bus Latency(TM) (NoBL(TM)) and Synchronous Burst SRAMs. NoBL
synchronous SRAMs are optimized for high-speed applications that require maximum
bus bandwidth, including those in the networking, instrumentation, video and
simulation businesses. Synchronous Burst SRAMs are ideally suited for processor
cache applications. Both types of devices come in a variety of densities and I/O
configurations. In 2003, Cypress introduced a 72-Mbit NoBL SRAM, the industry's
largest, manufactured on our proprietary 90-nanometer technology.

        Quad Data Rate(TM)(QDR(TM)) SRAMs. QDR products are targeted toward
next-generation networking applications, particularly switches and routers that
operate at data rates beyond 300 MHz. Cypress, Micron Technology Inc, Samsung
Electronics Co Ltd., Hitachi Ltd., IDT Corp. and NEC Corp. worked closely
together to create the QDR standard to ensure that customers will have multiple
pin and function-compatible sources for these products.

NON-MEMORY PRODUCTS

        Our Non-Memory business targets the networking, wireless infrastructure
and handsets, computation, consumer, automotive, industrial and other markets.
The category includes products from Cypress's Timing Technology Division (TTD),
Personal Communications Division (PCD) and Data Communications Division (DCD),
along with products from several Cypress subsidiaries. Cypress's Non-Memory
products portfolio includes the following:

        Dual-Port Memories. Dual-ports, which can be accessed by two different
processors or buses simultaneously, target shared-memory and switching
applications, including networking switches and routers, cellular base stations,
mass storage devices and telecommunications equipment. Our family of synchronous
and asynchronous Dual-Port RAMs range in density from 8 Kbits to 18 Mbits in x8,
x9, x16, x18 and x36 configurations. Cypress broadened its portfolio in 2003
with the introduction of the 18-Mbit Dual-Port.

                                     Page 4
<PAGE>

        First-In, First-Out (FIFO) Memories. FIFOs are used as a buffer between
systems operating at different frequencies. Cypress offers FIFO memories in a
variety of high-bandwidth synchronous and asynchronous architectures with
industry-standard pinouts.

        Framers. Our high-performance Synchronous Optical Network/Synchronous
Digital Hierarchy (SONET/SDH) framers transport SONET or SDH frames at the data
rates of 2.488 Gbps and 9.952 Gbps. This family includes our POSIC2GVC(TM)
framer, one of the industry's first devices to offer both generic framing
procedures and virtual concatenation. These innovations enable the efficient
transport of multiple data protocols over existing SONET/SDH networks. POSIC(TM)
framers are compatible with protocols including Ethernet, Fibre Channel,
Enterprise System Connection, Digital Video Broadcast and a commercial video
standard for the Society for Motion Pictures and Television Engineers. We are
developing the next generation of framers to include enhanced features such as
Link Capacity Adjustment Scheme and Low-Order Virtual Concatenation, which will
enable dynamic bandwidth changes and the ability to provide scalable data
services from 1.5 Mbps to 1 Gbps.

        Grating Light Valve(TM) (GLV(TM)). The GLV was designed by Silicon Light
Machines(TM) (SLM), a Cypress subsidiary. GLV technology switches, modulates and
attenuates light in a variety of applications. The GLV is used for applications
in the communications, digital imaging, simulation, display and direct-to-print
markets.

        High-Speed Optical Transceiver Link (HOTLink(R)) Physical Layer Devices
(PHYs). Our HOTLink and HOTLink II(TM) family of PHYs are physical-layer
products for moving serial data at rates from 50 Mbps to 1.5 Gbps. These
products support a variety of applications and industrial protocols including
Gigabit Ethernet, 10-Gbps Ethernet, Fibre Channel, Enterprise System Connection,
Asynchronous Transfer Mode, Digital Video Broadcast, Advanced Micro Devices
Inc.'s TAXI(TM) protocol, and generic backplane and point-to-point applications.
The newest HOTLink PHYs, including the HOTLink II PHY, move up to four channels
of serial data at up to 1.5 Gbps. The newest addition to this family is a
single-chip solution for professional-quality video.

        Link-Layer Devices (LLDs). Cypress LLDs help to map packet-based
transport protocols such as Gigabit Ethernet, Fibre Channel, and Enterprise
Systems Connection over optical SONET/SDH backbones. Cypress's MetroLink(TM)
product works in conjunction with our POSIC2GVC packet-over-SONET IC framer
described above.

        Neuron(R) Chips. Neuron chips are very-large-scale-integrated (VLSI)
devices that implement low-cost control networking applications. They provide
all the key functions necessary to intelligently process inputs from sensors and
control-actuator devices, and to propagate control information across a variety
of wireline and fiber-optic networking media. Neuron chips provide the logic for
LONWORKS(R) networks, an open, interoperable control networking standard widely
used in building automation, industrial control, transportation and utility
automation controllers. Each Neuron device contains three 8-bit central
processing units (CPUs), on-board memory, 11 general-purpose input/output (GPIO)
pins, and a complete, interoperable implementation of the ANSI/EIA 709.1-A-1999
Control Network Protocol.

        Physical Layer Devices. Our family of high-performance SONET/SDH and
Serializer/Deserializer (SERDES) devices move SONET or SDH frames between
equipment at SONET/SDH data rates of 51.85 Mbps (OC-1), 155.52 Mbps (OC-3/STM-1)
and 2.488 Gbps (OC-48/STM-16). Cypress's OC-48 products meet the requirements of
Wide Area Network (WAN) switches and routers with stringent, Bellcore-compliant
jitter specifications.

        QuadPort(R) Datapath Switching Elements (DSEs). QuadPort DSEs are
non-blocking switch devices that allow four independent buses, processors or
backplanes to access the DSE simultaneously in separate time domains.
Applications for these devices include 4 x 4 switching, packet-header
manipulation, and datapath transport that can reduce the need for large
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) devices. QuadPort DSEs are used in
redundant arrays of independent disks (RAID) and storage switches, Metropolitan
Area Network (MAN)/ Wide Area Network (WAN) switches and routers, and wireless
base station applications. We have recently expanded our product offerings to
include 16 Kbit x 18-bit-wide and 32 Kbit x 18-bit-wide versions of these
devices.

        Programmable Clocks. Programmable timing solutions combine the
flexibility and fast time to market of field-programmable devices with high
performance at a cost that is competitive against custom clocks at equivalent
volumes. Working with our easy-to-use CyClocks(TM) and CyberClocks(TM) software,
designers can select custom frequencies for a variety of applications. Cypress
is the only supplier offering true field-programmable clocks. All our clocks
have the desired characteristics of high drive, low jitter, low electromagnetic
interference and low skew.

        Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs). System logic performs non-memory
functions such as floating-point mathematics or the organization and routing of
signals throughout a computer system. Cypress manufactures several types of
PLDs, which facilitate the replacement of multiple standard logic devices with a
single programmable device, increasing flexibility and reducing time to market.
Cypress's flagship product is the Delta39K(TM) Complex Programmable Logic
Device, which operates at high speed (233 MHz) and has more than 3,000
macrocells. All our products are supported by the Warp(R) software tool set,
which enables designers to work in either

                                     Page 5
<PAGE>

very high-speed integrated circuit hardware description language, an industry
standard developed by Cypress, or in Verilog, another industry standard.

        Programmable System-on-Chip(TM) (PSoC(TM)) Configurable Mixed-Signal
Arrays. PSoC products are configurable mixed-signal arrays with an on-board
controller, providing a low-cost, single-chip solution for a variety of
consumer, industrial and control applications, and taking the place of multiple
custom controllers. The PSoC family integrates programmable blocks of analog and
digital logic, a fast 8-bit processor, 8 to 16 KBytes of flash memory and 256
bytes of SRAM. PSoC provides designers with a flexible architecture that can be
configured for a broad range of embedded applications and dynamically
reconfigured to extend the capabilities and value of designers' product.

        Registered Buffers. As processor and signal speeds in systems increase,
buffers are required to move data to and from memory more quickly. To meet the
demands of high-capacity memory modules in servers and workstations, Cypress
registered buffers operate at clock frequencies up to 280 MHz, exceeding the
standards for chip-to-chip communication established by the Joint Electronic
Device Engineering Council organization.

        RoboClock(R) Clock Buffers. Our RoboClock family of high-performance
programmable-skew clock buffers, the flagship product of our Timing Technology
Division, offers features including zero propagation delay, 50/50 duty cycle,
multiply/divide functions and programmable skew. These features allow customers
to compensate for timing differences caused by different circuit board trace
lengths and device set-up and hold times. The RoboClock II(TM) programmable
clock skew buffer family operates at speeds up to 200 MHz, supports 18 outputs,
and adds more multiply, divide and programmable-skew options.

        Solar Cells. SunPower Corporation ("SunPower") is a Cypress subsidiary
that recently sampled the A-300 cell, an efficient, commercial low-cost silicon
solar cell. Based on a rear-contact design which maximizes the working cell
area, hides unsightly wires and makes automated production easier, the A-300
achieves over 20% efficiency, compared with currently available cells in the
12%-15% range. SunPower products have powered solar systems such as that of
NASA's Helios, a solar-powered airplane that set an altitude record of 96,863
feet in 2001. Cypress is currently working with SunPower to establish a
high-volume manufacturing plant in the Philippines to increase cost-efficiency
in manufacturing the solar cells.

        USB Controllers. USB is a four-wire connection between a PC and
peripherals, including keyboards, mice, printers, joysticks, scanners and modems
and among various non-PC systems. The USB standard facilitates a "plug-and-play"
architecture that enables instant recognition and interoperability when a
USB-compatible peripheral is hooked into a system. Cypress offers a full range
of USB solutions, including low-speed (1.5 Mbps), full-speed (12 Mbps) and
high-speed (480 Mbps) USB products. We also offer a variety of USB hubs,
transceivers, serial interface engines and embedded-host products for a broad
range of applications.

        WirelessUSB(TM) (WUSB) Controllers. WirelessUSB is a wireless,
radio-frequency solution that enables designers of PC mice, keyboards, games and
other systems to minimize development time, cost, and power requirements without
sacrificing performance. Operating at 2.4 GHz, WirelessUSB can connect multiple
devices to a single receiver at ranges of up to 30 feet apart or more.

Cypress,  the Cypress  logo,  MoBL,  QuadPort,  HOTLink,  Warp and RoboClock are
registered  trademarks  of  Cypress  Semiconductor   Corporation.   HOTLink  II,
MicroPower,   More  Battery  Life,  NoBL,  No  Bus  Latency,  MetroLink,  POSIC,
POSIC2GVC,  RoboClock II,  WirelessUSB,  CyClocks,  CyberClocks and Delta39K are
trademarks of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation.

Programmable  System-on-Chip and PSoC are trademarks of Cypress MicroSystems,  a
subsidiary of Cypress.

Silicon Light  Machines,  Grating Light Valve and GLV are  trademarks of Silicon
Light Machines, a subsidiary of Cypress.

Quad Data  Rate(TM)  SRAM and  QDR(TM)  SRAM  comprise a new family of  products
developed  by Cypress,  IDT Corp,  Micron  Technology  Inc, NEC Corp and Samsung
Electronics Co Ltd.

Neuron and LONWORKS are registered  trademarks of Echelon  Corporation in the US
and other countries.

CellularRAM is a trademark of Micron  Technology Inc in the United States and is
a trademark of Infineon Technology AG outside the United States.

TAXI is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices Inc.

All  other  trademarks  or  registered  trademarks  are the  property  of  their
respective owners.

                                     Page 6
<PAGE>

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

        We place great emphasis on research and development ("R&D"). This is
partially reflected by our commitment of significant management resources to
continuously improve process and product design development cycle time. Our
current product strategy requires rapid development of new products using
emerging process technologies while minimizing R&D costs. We perform R&D for
both process technology and for new product design. We spent $251.4 million,
$287.9 million and $267.5 million on R&D in fiscal 2003, fiscal 2002 and fiscal
2001, respectively.

        Our process technology research focuses primarily on the continuous
migration to smaller geometries. Currently, we are ramping our latest
90-nanometer technology in manufacturing. We also started initial development
activity on the 65-nanometer technology in our eight-inch R&D facility in San
Jose, California (Fab 1).

        We continued MRAM (magnetic RAM) process development for memory products
and embedded non-volatile applications in our Fab 1 in 2003. MRAM technology
will offer customers an improvement in read-write times, endurance and data
retention over currently available non-volatile memory products (Flash, EEPROM,
FERAM). Initial markets to be served include servers, high-end disk drives, and
industrial control systems.

        During fiscal 2003 we continued our joint development program with
Honeywell to develop a 0.13-micron Silicon-On-Insulator process technology in
our wafer fabrication facility in Minnesota (Fab 4).

        We have a central design group that focuses on new product creation and
improvement of design methodologies. This group has ongoing efforts to reduce
design cycle time and increase first pass yield through structured re-use of
intellectual property ("IP") blocks from a controlled IP library, development of
computer-aided design tools and improved design business processes. We currently
have 43 design teams in place working on new product designs. Design and related
software development work primarily occurs at centers located in the United
States, Ireland, India and Turkey.

MANUFACTURING

        In fiscal 2003, we manufactured approximately 77% of our products at our
two sub-micron wafer fabrication facilities, Fab 2, located in Texas and Fab 4,
located in Minnesota. These fabrication facilities utilize our proprietary 0.13
through 0.8-micron CMOS, 0.25 and 0.8-micron BiCMOS, and 0.35-micron Silicon
Nitride Oxide Silicon (SONOS) processes. Wafer foundries manufactured the
balance of our products.

        In fiscal 2003, we continued our transition to more advanced process
technologies in Fab 4: our 0.13-micron and 0.15-micron CMOS process
technologies. In 2003 these processes accounted for approximately 65% of the
output of Fab 4. This transition to processes with smaller line widths results
in more die per wafer thereby reducing die costs.

        We conduct assembly and test operations at our highly automated assembly
and test facility in the Philippines. This facility accounted for approximately
48% of our total assembly output and approximately 71% of our total test output
in fiscal 2003. Various offshore subcontractors performed the balance of the
assembly and test operations.

        Our Philippines facility manufactures primarily volume products and
packages where our ability to leverage manufacturing costs is high. This
facility has four fully integrated, automated manufacturing lines (autolines)
enabling complete assembly and test operations with minimal human intervention.
These autolines have shorter manufacturing cycle times than conventional
assembly/test operations, which enable us to respond more rapidly to changes in
demand.

MARKETING AND SALES

        We use four channels to sell our products: direct OEM sales by our sales
force; sales by manufacturing representative firms; sales through domestic
distributors; and sales through international trading companies and
representative firms. Our marketing and sales efforts are organized around four
regions: North America, Europe, Japan and Asia/Pacific. We also have a global
accounts group and a contract-manufacturing group which are responsible for
specific customers with worldwide operations. We augment our sales effort with
field application engineers, specialists in our products, technologies and
services who work with customers to design our products into their systems.
Field application engineers also help us to identify emerging markets and new
products.

        International revenues accounted for 63% of our total revenues in fiscal
2003 compared with 57% of our total revenues in fiscal 2002 and 50% in fiscal
2001. For additional information on our geographic revenue split, please refer
to Note 20 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included with this report.
No individual customer accounted for greater than 10% of total revenues in
fiscal

                                     Page 7
<PAGE>

2003 or 2001. Sales to Motorola Inc accounted for 10.2% of total revenues in
fiscal 2002. Our customer list includes Cisco Systems Inc, EMC Corp, Epson,
Logitech International SA, Motorola Inc, Primax Electronics Ltd, Sony Corp. and
ST Microelectronics NV.

        We typically warrant our products against defects in materials and
workmanship for a period of one year and that product warranty is generally
limited to a refund of the original purchase price of the product.

BACKLOG

        Our sales typically rely upon standard purchase orders for delivery of
catalog products. Customer relationships are generally not subject to long-term
contracts. However, Cypress has entered into long-term supply agreements with
certain customers. These long-term supply agreements generally do not contain
minimum purchase commitments. Products to be delivered and the related delivery
schedules are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs. For these
reasons, our backlog at any particular date is not representative of actual
sales for any succeeding period and we believe that our backlog is not a
meaningful indicator of future revenues.

COMPETITION

        We face competition from domestic and foreign high-performance
integrated circuit manufacturers, many of which have advanced technological
capabilities and have increased their participation in the markets in which we
operate. We compete with a large number of companies primarily in the
telecommunications, data communications, computation and consumer markets.
Competitors, including Altera Corp, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Hitachi
Ltd., Integrated Device Technology Inc, Integrated Circuit Systems Inc, Motorola
Inc, National Semiconductor Corporation, PMC-Sierra Inc, Samsung Electronics Co
Ltd, STMicroelectronics NV, Texas Instruments Inc, Vitesse Semiconductor, and
Xilinx, Inc, target certain markets and compete directly with some of our
products. Competition is based on factors that can vary among products and
markets, including product design and quality, product performance, price and
service.

        The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. This intense
competition results in a challenging operating environment for most companies in
the industry, including Cypress. This environment is characterized by potential
erosion of product sale prices over the life of each product, rapid
technological change, limited product life cycles and strong domestic and
foreign competition in many markets. Our ability to compete successfully in a
rapidly evolving high performance end of the semiconductor technology spectrum
depends on many factors, including:

        .       our success in developing new products and manufacturing
                technologies;

        .       the delivery, performance, quality and price of our products;

        .       the diversity of our product line;

        .       the cost effectiveness of our design, development, manufacturing
                and marketing efforts;

        .       the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their
                systems; and

        .       the number and nature of our competitors and general economic
                conditions.

        We believe that we currently compete effectively in the above areas to
the extent they are within our control; however, given the pace at which events
change in the industry, our current abilities are not a guarantee of future
success. If we are not able to compete successfully in this environment, our
business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

        We currently have over 900 patents and approximately 800 additional
patent applications on file with the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
We are preparing to file more than 120 new patent applications in fiscal 2004.
In addition to factors such as innovation, technological expertise and
experienced personnel, we believe that patents are increasingly important to
remain competitive in our industry. We have an active program to obtain
additional patent and other intellectual property protection.

        We have entered into, and in the future may continue to enter into,
technology license agreements with third parties that give those parties the
right to use patents and other technology developed by us. Some of these
agreements also give us the right to use patents and other technologies
developed by such other parties, some of which involve payment of royalties.

        Cypress also vigorously defends its product and service marks. For a
list of Cypress trademarks and registered trademarks, please visit the "Terms
and Conditions" section of our website, which is located at www.cypress.com.

                                     Page 8
<PAGE>

ACQUISITIONS

        Cypress made no acquisitions during 2003. Cypress gained effective
control over SunPower in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. As a result,
effective the beginning of fiscal 2003, Cypress consolidated the results of
SunPower, which was previously accounted for under the equity method in fiscal
2002 due to the existence of substantive participating rights of the minority
shareholders.

EMPLOYEES

        As of December 28, 2003, we had 4,033 employees. None of our employees
are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we ever
experienced work stoppages.

RISK FACTORS

        The discussion in this report contains forward-looking statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties, including,
but not limited to, statements as to future operating results and business
plans, our prospects and the prospects of the semiconductor industry generally,
and statements as to the cost savings and productivity improvements, the
proportion of parts assembled in our Philippines factory, pressure on and trends
for average selling prices, investments by competitors in manufacturing capacity
and productivity yields, entering into licensing arrangements with third
parties, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, the financing of SunPower
Corporation, the impact of SunPower Corporation on future financial results, the
general economy and its impact to the market segments we serve, changing
environment and the cycles of the semiconductor industry, competitive pricing
and the rate at which new products are introduced, our expected product revenue
in the automotive sector, our outlook for fiscal 2004, our expected revenue for
fiscal 2004, our expected inprovements in gross margin in fiscal 2004, our
expectations to generate positive cash flow from operations in fiscal 2004,
successful integration and achieving the objectives of the acquired businesses,
cost goals emanating from manufacturing efficiencies, adequacy of cash and
working capital, our intention with respect to terminating the conversion rights
associated with our $600 million convertible subordinated notes, and other
liquidity risks. We use words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects,"
"future," "intends" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking
statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in
the forward-looking statements for any reason, including the factors set forth
in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report.

We are exposed to the risks associated with the slowdown in the U.S. and
worldwide economy.

        Among other factors, concerns about inflation, decreased consumer
confidence and spending and reduced corporate profits and capital spending
resulted in a downturn in the U.S. economy generally and in the semiconductor
industry in particular in 2001 and 2002. As a result of the downturn, our
volumes initially declined and were followed by significant reductions in our
average selling prices. As a consequence of the continued economic downturn in
fiscal 2002, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we announced a
restructuring plan that resized our manufacturing facilities, reduced our
workforce and combined facilities. In the first quarter of fiscal 2003, we took
an additional charge for personnel related to the Fiscal 2002 Restructuring
Plan. In fiscal 2003, we recorded impairment of certain other investments in
development stage companies. In fiscal 2002, we recorded a charge for the
impairment of goodwill and intangibles related to our subsidiary Silicon Light
Machines, as well as the impairment of certain other investments in development
stage companies. While our average selling prices declined at a slower rate in
fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002, we cannot be certain that an industry
growth cycle has begun or will begin. The reduced rate of price decline is often
one of the signs of the start of an industry growth cycle. However, should
economic conditions worsen, additional restructuring of operations may be
required, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be
seriously harmed.

We face periods of industry-wide semiconductor over-supply that harm our
results.

        The semiconductor industry has historically been characterized by wide
fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, semiconductors. These
fluctuations have helped produce many occasions when supply and demand for
semiconductors have not been in balance. In the past, these industry-wide
fluctuations in demand, which have resulted in under-utilization of our
manufacturing capacity, have seriously harmed our operating results. In some
cases, industry downturns with these characteristics have lasted more than a
year. Prior experience has shown that restructuring of the operations, resulting
in significant restructuring charges, may become necessary if an industry
downturn persists. In response to the downturn that began in early 2001, we
restructured our manufacturing operations and administrative areas in third
quarter of fiscal 2001 and fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 to increase cost
efficiency while

                                     Page 9
<PAGE>

still maintaining an infrastructure that will enable us to grow when sustainable
economic recovery begins. When these cycles occur, however, they will likely
seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and
we may need to take further action to respond to them.

Our future operating results are likely to fluctuate and therefore may fail to
meet expectations.

        Our operating results have varied widely in the past and may continue to
fluctuate in the future. In addition, our operating results may not follow any
past trends. Our future operating results will depend on many factors and may
fluctuate and fail to meet our expectations or those of others for a variety of
reasons, including the following:

        .       the intense competitive pricing pressure to which our products
                are subject, which can lead to rapid and unexpected declines in
                average selling prices;

        .       the complexity of our manufacturing processes and the
                sensitivity of our production costs to declines in manufacturing
                yields, which make yield problems both possible and costly when
                they occur; and

        .       the need for constant, rapid, new product introductions present
                an ongoing design and manufacturing challenge, which can be
                significantly impacted by even relatively minor errors, and
                which may result in products never achieving expected market
                demand.

        As a result of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our
expectations as to future revenues, gross profit and income from operations. Any
downward fluctuation or failure to meet expectations will likely adversely
affect the value of your investment in Cypress.

        In addition, because we recognize revenues from sales to certain
distributors only when these distributors make a sale to customers, we are
highly dependent on the accuracy of their resale estimates. The occurrence of
inaccurate estimates also contributes to the difficulty in predicting our
quarterly revenue and results of operations and we can fail to meet expectations
if we are not accurate in our estimates.

Our financial results could be seriously harmed if the markets in which we sell
our products do not grow.

        Our continued success depends in large part on the continued growth of
various electronics industries that use our semiconductors, including the
following industries:

        .       networking equipment;
        .       wireless telecommunications equipment;
        .       computers and computer-related peripherals; and
        .       consumer electronics, automotive electronics and industrial
                controls.

        Many of our products are incorporated into data communications and
telecommunications end products. Any reduction in the growth of, or decline in
the demand for, networking applications, mass storage, telecommunications,
cellular base stations, cellular handsets and other personal communication
devices that incorporate our products could seriously harm our business,
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain of our
products, including Universal Serial Bus microcontrollers and high-frequency
clocks, are incorporated into computer and computer-related products, which have
historically and may in the future experience significant fluctuations in
demand. We may also be seriously harmed by slower growth in the other markets in
which we sell our products. We are affected by a general pattern of product
price decline and fluctuations, which can harm our business.

        Even in the absence of an industry downturn, the average selling prices
of our products have historically decreased during the products' lives and we
expect this trend to continue. In order to offset selling price decreases, we
attempt to decrease the manufacturing costs of our products and to introduce
new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts
are not successful or do not occur in a timely manner, or if our newly
introduced products do not gain market acceptance, our business, financial
condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.

        In addition to following the general pattern of decreasing average
selling prices, the selling prices for certain products, particularly commodity
products, fluctuate significantly with real and perceived changes in the balance
of supply and demand for these products. In the event we are unable to decrease
per unit manufacturing costs at a rate equal to or faster than the rate at which
selling prices continue to decline, our business, financial condition and
results of operations will be seriously harmed. Furthermore, we expect our
competitors to invest in new manufacturing capacity and achieve significant
manufacturing yield improvements in the future. These

                                     Page 10
<PAGE>

developments could dramatically increase the worldwide supply of competitive
products and result in further downward pressure on prices.

We may face automotive product liability claims that are disproportionately
higher than the value of the products involved.

        Although all of our products sold in the automotive market are covered
by our standard warranty, we could incur costs not covered by our warranties
including, but not limited to, labor and other costs of replacing defective
parts, lost profits and other damages. These costs could be disproportionately
higher than the revenue and profits we receive from the products involved. If we
are required to pay for damages resulting from quality or performance issues of
our automotive products, our business, financial condition and results of
operations could be adversely affected.

We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately and may
face significant expenses as a result of ongoing or future litigation.

        Protection of our intellectual property rights is essential to keep
others from copying the innovations that are central to our existing and future
products. Consequently, we may become involved in litigation to enforce our
patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and
know-how, to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others
or to defend against claims of invalidity. This type of litigation can be
expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose.

        We are now and may again become involved in litigation relating to
alleged infringement by us of others' patents or other intellectual property
rights. This type of litigation is frequently expensive to both the winning
party and the losing party and could take up significant amounts of management's
time and attention. In addition, if we lose such a lawsuit, a court could
require us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties or prohibit us from using
essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this type of litigation
could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of
operations. Also, although in certain instances we may seek to obtain a license
under a third party's intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to
certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such
a license on reasonable terms or at all.

        For a variety of reasons, we have entered into technology license
agreements with third parties that give those parties the right to use patents
and other technology developed by us and that gives us the right to use patents
and other technology developed by them. We anticipate that we will continue to
enter into these kinds of licensing arrangements in the future. It is possible,
however, that licenses we want will not be available to us on commercially
reasonable terms or at all. If we lose existing licenses to key technology, or
are unable to enter into new licenses that we deem important, our business,
financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.

        It is critical to our success that we are able to prevent competitors
from copying our innovations. We, therefore intend to continue to seek patent,
trade secret and mask work protection for our semiconductor manufacturing
technologies. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive
and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will
actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they
will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any
commercial advantage to us. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that
are similar or superior to our technology or design around the patents we own.

        We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part
through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third
parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements and we may not have
adequate remedies for any breach. Also, others may come to know about or
determine our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws
of certain countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may
not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of
the United States.

Our financial results could be adversely impacted if we fail to develop,
introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new
manufacturing technologies.

        Like many semiconductor companies, which frequently operate in a highly
competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of
existing products, our future success depends on our ability to develop and
introduce new products that customers choose to buy. We introduce significant
numbers of products each year, which are important sources of revenue for us.
For example, we are introducing one-transistor PSRAM products to replace our
six-transistor products. If the revenues from our one-transistor products do not
equal or exceed the revenues from our six-transistor products, our business,
financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. If we
fail to introduce new product designs in a timely manner or are unable to
manufacture products according to the requirements of these designs, or if our
customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating
our or market demand for our new products does not exist as anticipated, our
business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously
harmed.

                                     Page 11
<PAGE>

        For us and many other semiconductor companies, introduction of new
products is a major manufacturing challenge. The new products the market
requires tend to be increasingly complex, incorporating more functions and
operating at faster speeds than prior products. Increasing complexity generally
requires smaller features on a chip. This makes manufacturing new generations of
products substantially more difficult than prior generations. Ultimately,
whether we can successfully introduce these and other new products depends on
our ability to develop and implement new ways of manufacturing semiconductors.
If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products
successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations would
be seriously harmed.

Our ability to meet our cash requirements depends on a number of factors, many
of which are beyond our control.

        Our ability to meet our cash requirements (including our debt service
obligations) is dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to
financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which
are beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that our business will generate
sufficient cash flows from operations to fund our cash requirements. If we were
unable to meet our cash requirements from operations, we would be required to
fund these cash requirements by alternative financing. The degree to which we
may be leveraged could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain
financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, could make us
more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures or could limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes and opportunities in our
industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain
alternative financing, that any such financing would be on acceptable terms or
that we will be permitted to do so under the terms of our existing financing
arrangements. In the absence of such financing, our ability to respond to
changing business and economic conditions, make future acquisitions, react to
adverse operating results, meet our debt service obligations or fund required
capital expenditures or increased working capital requirements may be adversely
affected.

Interruptions in the availability of raw materials can seriously harm our
financial performance.

        Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials that
must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source available
for these materials, but for certain of our products there are only a limited
number of suppliers capable of delivering the raw materials that meet our
standards. If we need to use other companies as suppliers, they must go through
a qualification process, which can be difficult and lengthy. In addition, the
raw materials we need for certain of our products could become scarcer as
worldwide demand for semiconductors increases. Interruption of our sources of
raw materials could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

Problems in the performance or availability of other companies we hire to
perform certain manufacturing tasks can seriously harm our financial
performance.

        A high percentage of our products are fabricated in our manufacturing
facilities located in Texas and Minnesota. However, we do rely on independent
contractors to manufacture some of our products. If market demand for our
products suddenly exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity, we may seek
additional foundry manufacturing arrangements. A shortage in foundry
manufacturing capacity could hinder our ability to meet demand for our products
and therefore adversely affect our operating results.

        A high percentage of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at
our manufacturing facility located in the Philippines. We rely on independent
subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products. This
reliance involves certain risks, because we have less control over manufacturing
quality and delivery schedules, whether these companies have adequate capacity
to meet our needs and whether or not they discontinue or phase-out assembly
processes we require. We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will
continue to assemble, package and test products for us and it might be difficult
for us to find alternatives if they do not do so.

The complex nature of our manufacturing activities makes us highly susceptible
to manufacturing problems and these problems can have substantial negative
impact on us when they occur.

        Making semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring
production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Even very small
impurities in our manufacturing materials, difficulties in the wafer fabrication
process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors
can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous chips on
each wafer to be nonfunctional. We may experience problems in achieving an
acceptable success rate in the manufacture of wafers and the

                                     Page 12
<PAGE>

likelihood of facing such difficulties is higher in connection with the
transition to new manufacturing methods. The interruption of wafer fabrication
or the failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields at any of our
facilities would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of
operations. We may also experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and
test operations and in the introduction of new packaging materials.

We may not be able to use all of our existing or future manufacturing capacity,
which can negatively impact our business.

        We have in the past spent, and will continue to spend, significant
amounts of money to upgrade and increase our wafer fabrication, assembly and
test manufacturing capability and capacity. If we do not need some of this
capacity and capability for a variety of reasons, such as inadequate demand or a
significant shift in the mix of product orders that makes our existing capacity
and capability inadequate or in excess of our actual needs, our fixed costs per
semiconductor produced will increase, which will harm our business, financial
condition and results of operations. In addition, if the need for more advanced
products requires accelerated conversion to technologies capable of
manufacturing semiconductors having smaller features or requires the use of
larger wafers, we are likely to face higher operating expenses and may need to
write-off capital equipment made obsolete by the technology conversion, either
of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of
operations. For example, in response to various downturns and changes in our
business, we have not been able to use all of our existing equipment and we have
restructured our operations. These restructurings have resulted in material
charges, which have negatively affected our business.

Our operations and financial results could be severely harmed by certain natural
disasters.

        Our headquarters, some manufacturing facilities and some of our major
vendors' facilities are located near major earthquake faults. We have not been
able to maintain earthquake insurance coverage at reasonable costs. Instead, we
rely on self-insurance and preventative/safety measures. If a major earthquake
or other natural disaster occurs, we may need to spend significant amounts to
repair or replace our facilities and equipment and we could suffer damages that
could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

Our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously
harmed if we fail to compete successfully in our highly competitive industry and
markets.

        The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. This intense
competition results in a difficult operating environment for us and most other
semiconductor companies that is marked by erosion of average selling prices over
the lives of each product, rapid technological change, limited product life
cycles and strong domestic and foreign competition in many markets. A primary
cause of this highly competitive environment is the strength of our competitors.
The industry consists of major domestic and international semiconductor
companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical,
marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. We face competition from
other domestic and foreign high-performance integrated circuit manufacturers,
many of which have advanced technological capabilities and have increased their
participation in markets that are important to us.

        Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving high
performance portion of the semiconductor technology industry depends on many
factors, including:

        .       our success in developing new products and manufacturing
                technologies;

        .       the quality and price of our products;

        .       the diversity of our product line;

        .       the cost effectiveness of our design, development, manufacturing
                and marketing efforts;

        .       our customer service;

        .       our customer satisfaction;

        .       the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their
                systems;

        .       the number and nature of our competitors and general economic
                conditions; and

        .       our access to and the availability of capital.

                                     Page 13
<PAGE>

        Although we believe we currently compete effectively in the above areas
to the extent they are within our control, given the pace of change in the
industry, our current abilities are not a guarantee of future success. If we are
unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial
condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed.

We must build semiconductors based on our forecasts of demand, and if our
forecasts are inaccurate, we may have large amounts of unsold products or we may
not be able to fill all orders.

        We order materials and build semiconductors based primarily on our
internal forecasts and secondarily on existing orders, which may be cancelled
under many circumstances. Consequently, we depend on our forecasts as a
principal means to determine inventory levels for our products and the amount of
manufacturing capacity that we need. Because our markets are volatile and
subject to rapid technological and price changes, our forecasts may be wrong and
we may make too many or too few of certain products or have too much or too
little manufacturing capacity. Also, our customers frequently place orders
requesting product delivery almost immediately after the order is made, which
makes forecasting customer demand even more difficult, particularly when supply
is abundant. These factors also make it difficult to forecast quarterly
operating results. If we are unable to predict accurately the appropriate amount
of product required to meet customer demand, our business, financial condition
and results of operations could be seriously harmed, either through missed
revenue opportunities because inventory for sale was insufficient or through
excessive inventory that would require write-offs.

We must spend heavily on equipment to stay competitive and will be adversely
impacted if we are unable to secure financing for such investments.

        In order to remain competitive, semiconductor manufacturers generally
must spend heavily on equipment to maintain or increase technology and design
development and manufacturing capacity and capability. We currently plan for
approximately $144.1 million in expenditures on equipment in fiscal 2004 and
anticipate significant continuing capital expenditures in subsequent years. In
the past, we have reinvested a substantial portion of our cash flow from
operations in technology, design development and capacity expansion and
improvement programs.

        If we are unable to decrease costs for our products at a rate at least
as fast as the rate of the decline in selling prices for such products, we may
not be able to generate enough cash flow from operations to maintain or increase
manufacturing capability and capacity as necessary. In such a situation, we
would need to seek financing from external sources to satisfy our needs for
manufacturing equipment and, if cash flow from operations declines too much, for
operational cash needs as well. Such financing, however, may not be available on
terms that are satisfactory to us or at all, in which case our business,
financial condition and results of operations would be seriously harmed.

We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or
inability to attract, such personnel would harm us.

        To a greater degree than most non-technology companies, we depend on the
efforts and abilities of certain key management and technical personnel. Our
future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and
to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product and
process engineers. We compete for these individuals with other companies,
academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition
for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or
retaining new or existing qualified personnel.

        We believe that stock option grants are critical to our ability to
attract and retain personnel. The New York Stock Exchange implemented rules
effective June 30, 2003 that would require, subject to certain exceptions,
stockholder approval for equity compensation plans, including stock option
plans. Our stockholder approved 1994 Stock Option Plan expires in April 2004. We
will be seeking a new stockholder approved stock option plan at our 2004 Annual
Shareholder's Meeting. Our ability to hire or retain highly qualified personnel
may be seriously impacted due to an inability to grant stock options and other
equity-based compensation if we are unable to obtain stockholder approval for
such plans in a timely manner or at all.

        If we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new
qualified personnel as needed, our business, financial condition and results of
operations could be seriously harmed.

We face additional problems and uncertainties associated with international
operations that could seriously harm us.

        International revenues accounted for 63% of our total revenues in fiscal
2003. At the end of fiscal 2003, long-lived assets were held primarily in the
United States with approximately 10% held in the Philippines and 1% in other
foreign countries. Our Philippine

                                     Page 14
<PAGE>

assembly and test operations, as well as our international sales offices, face
risks frequently associated with foreign operations including:

        .       currency exchange fluctuations;

        .       the devaluation of local currencies;

        .       political instability;

        .       changes in local economic conditions;

        .       import and export controls; and

        .       changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates.

        To the extent any such risks materialize, our business, financial
condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.

We are subject to many different environmental regulations and compliance with
them may be costly.

        We are subject to many different governmental regulations related to the
storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous
chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Compliance with these regulations
can be costly. In addition, over the last several years, the public has paid a
great deal of attention to the potentially negative environmental impact of
semiconductor manufacturing operations. This attention and other factors may
lead to changes in environmental regulations that could force us to purchase
additional equipment or comply with other potentially costly requirements. If we
fail to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of,
hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could face
substantial liability or suspension of our manufacturing operations, which could
seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on third parties to transport our products.

        We rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products
between manufacturing plants and our customers. Any transport or delivery
problems because of their errors or because of unforeseen interruptions in their
activities due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism,
natural disasters and accidents could seriously harm our business, financial
condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with
our customers.

We may fail to integrate our business and technologies with those of companies
that we have recently acquired and that we may acquire in the future.

        We completed no acquisitions in 2003, one acquisition in fiscal 2002,
six acquisitions in fiscal 2001 and four acquisitions in fiscal 2000 and may
pursue additional acquisitions in the future. If we fail to integrate these
businesses successfully or properly, our quarterly and annual results may be
seriously harmed. Integrating these businesses, people, products and services
with our existing business could be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on
our resources. Specific issues that we face with regard to prior and future
acquisitions include:

        .       integrating acquired technology or products;

        .       integrating acquired products into our manufacturing facilities;

        .       assimilating the personnel of the acquired companies;

        .       coordinating and integrating geographically dispersed
                operations;

        .       our ability to retain customers of the acquired company;

        .       the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction
                of management;

        .       the maintenance of brand recognition of acquired businesses;

        .       the failure to successfully develop acquired in-process
                technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts currently
                capitalized as intangible assets;

        .       unanticipated expenses related to technology integration;

                                     Page 15
<PAGE>

        .       the development and maintenance of uniform standards, corporate
                cultures, controls, procedures and policies;

        .       the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as
                a result of any integration of new management personnel;

        .       the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired
                businesses; and

        .       migration of 6T Pseudo SRAM to 1T Pseudo SRAM technology.

We may incur losses in connection with loans made under our stock purchase
assistance plan.

        We have outstanding loans, consisting of principal and cumulative
accrued interest, of $80.5 million as of December 28, 2003 to employees and
former employees under the shareholder-approved 2001 Employee Stock Purchase
Assistance Plan. (See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included
in this report for a further description of this plan.) We made the loans to
employees for the purpose of purchasing Cypress common stock. Each loan is
evidenced by a full recourse promissory note executed by the employee in favor
of Cypress and is secured by a pledge of the shares of Cypress's common stock
purchased with the proceeds of the loan. The primary benefit to us from this
program is increased employee retention. In accordance with the plan, the CEO
and the Board of Directors do not participate in this program. To date, there
have been immaterial write-offs. As of December 28, 2003, we have a loss reserve
against these loans of $16.2 million. In determining this reserve requirement,
management considered various factors, including an independent fair value
analysis of these loans and the underlying collateral. At December 28, 2003, the
carrying value of the loans exceeded the underlying common stock collateral by
$6.4 million. While the loans are secured by the shares of our stock purchased
with the loan proceeds, the value of this collateral would be adversely affected
if our stock price declined significantly.

        Our results of operations would be adversely affected if a significant
amount of these loans were not repaid. Similarly, if our stock price were to
decrease, our employees bear greater repayment risk and we would have increased
risk to our results of operations. However, we are willing to pursue every
available avenue, including those covered under the Uniform Commercial Code, to
recover these loans by pursuing employees' personal assets should the employees
not repay these loans.

        In October 2003, we announced a program aimed at minimizing any losses
to employees as a result of our common stock price fluctuations. Under this
program, either a limit sale order or a stop loss order is placed on the common
stock purchased by each employee with the loan proceeds once the common stock
price exceeds that employee's break-even point. If the common stock price
reaches the sale limit order or declines to the stop loss price, the common
stock purchased by the employee under the Plan will be automatically sold and
the proceeds utilized to repay the employee's outstanding loan.

We maintain self-insurance for certain liabilities of our officers and
directors.

        Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements
require us to indemnify our officers and directors for certain liabilities that
may arise in the course of their service to us. We self-insure with respect to
potential indemnifiable claims. If we were required to pay a significant amount
on account of these liabilities for which we self-insure, our business,
financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.

                                     Page 16
<PAGE>

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Certain information regarding each of our current executive officers is
set forth below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     EXECUTIVE
                                                                                                      OFFICER
     NAME                         AGE                                 POSITION                         SINCE
     ----                      ---------                            ------------                    -----------
     <S>                          <C>      <C>                                                         <C>
     T. J. Rodgers                56       President, Chief Executive Officer and Director             1982
     Antonio R. Alvarez           47       Executive Vice President, Memory Products Division          1993
     Emmanuel T. Hernandez        48       Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration
                                           Chief Financial Officer                                     1994
     Ralph H. Schmitt             43       Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing               2000
     Christopher Seams            41       Executive Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing &
                                           Research and Development                                    2002
     Christopher Norris           41       Vice President, Data Communications Division                2003
     Cathal Phelan                40       Vice President, Personal Communications Division            2003
     Ilhan Refioglu               55       Vice President, Timing Technology Division                  2003
</TABLE>

        Except as set forth below, each of our executive officers has been
engaged in his principal occupation described above during the past five years.
There is no family relationship between any of our directors or executive
officers.

        T.J. Rodgers is a co-founder of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and
has been a Director and its President and Chief Executive Officer since 1982.
Mr. Rodgers serves as a director of SolarFlare Communications Inc, Infinera, ION
America, and SunPower Corporation.

        Antonio R. Alvarez joined Cypress in May 1987 as a senior technical
engineer. Mr. Alvarez was transferred to our former subsidiary, Aspen
Semiconductor Corporation, in April 1988 as the manager of BiCMOS technology. In
October 1989, Mr. Alvarez returned to the corporate office as Vice President,
Research and Development. In 1998, Mr. Alvarez also became responsible for the
Memory Products Division. Mr. Alvarez was named Executive Vice President in
April 1999.

        Emmanuel T. Hernandez joined Cypress in June 1993 as Corporate
Controller. In January 1994, Mr. Hernandez was promoted to Senior Vice
President, Finance and Administration, and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to
joining Cypress, Mr. Hernandez held various financial positions with National
Semiconductor Corporation from 1976 through 1993. Mr. Hernandez was named
Executive Vice President in May 1998. Mr. Hernandez serves as a board member of
Xicor Inc, ON Semiconductor, and SunPower Corporation.

        Ralph H. Schmitt joined Cypress in 1987 as our first account manager. In
1991 he became responsible for the Mid-Atlantic sales region. In 1993 he was
named Director of Worldwide Strategic Accounts. In 1995 Mr. Schmitt left Cypress
to found GroupTec LLC, a Manufacturers' Representative. He was a Partner and
President of this firm. Mr. Schmitt rejoined Cypress in January 1998 as Sales
Director with responsibility for transitioning the sales and marketing
organization to align with Cypress's shift to a market-based strategy. He was
appointed Vice President, Segment Sales and Marketing in September 1999 and
named Vice President, Sales and Marketing in June 2000. Mr. Schmitt was named an
Executive Vice President in July 2000. He serves as a board member to Azanda
Network Devices.

        Christopher Seams joined Cypress in 1990 and held a variety of positions
in process and assembly technology research and development and manufacturing
operations. In 2001, Mr. Seams became responsible for Research and Development.
He was appointed Executive Vice President, Manufacturing and Research and
Development in November 2002. He serves as a board member of 1ST Silicon, Ronal
Systems Corporation and SunPower Corporation.

        Christopher Norris joined Cypress in 1988 as a senior design engineer.
He has held a number of positions within Cypress including design manager,
director of new product development, and general manager of the programmable
logic division. In 1996, Mr. Norris was promoted to Vice President, Programmable
Logic Division and in 2000 became responsible for the Data Communications
Division where he is responsible for developing Cypress's products for the
wide-area networking, storage networking, and wireless infrastructure markets.

        Cathal Phelan joined Cypress in 1991 as a senior design engineer. He has
held a number of positions within Cypress including design director, new
products director, and business unit manager. In 1999, Mr. Phelan was promoted
to Vice President, Personal Communications Division where he is responsible for
developing products for the Universal Serial Bus market.

                                     Page 17
<PAGE>

        Ilhan Refioglu joined Cypress in February 2001 as Vice President of the
Timing Technology Division. Prior to joining Cypress, he was the president and
CEO of International Microcircuits, Inc., which Cypress acquired in 2001, for
five years. He served as vice president at Exar Corp from 1984 to 1995, where he
was responsible for all business divisions of the company.
