ITEM I. BUSINESS
     This Item contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Report. 

General
     Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (“Cypress”) designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad line of high-performance digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits for a range of markets, including data communications, telecommunications, computers, and instrumentation systems. We currently offer approximately 420 products through a network of sales offices, distributors, and sales representative firms. In fiscal 2000, international sales accounted for 49% of our total sales. Our products are sold to a wide range of customers, including Alcatel Alsthom S.A., Cisco Systems, Inc., International Business Machines Corporation, Intel Corporation, Lucent Technologies, Inc., Motorola, Inc., NEC Corporation, Nortel Networks Corporation, 3Com Corporation, and Sony Corporation. 

     Cypress was founded in 1982 and our initial strategy was to provide innovative high-performance complementary metal-oxide silicon (“CMOS”) integrated circuits to niche markets that were believed to be too small to be targeted by the established semiconductor manufacturers. In 1992, we modified our strategy to focus on selected high-volume commodity memory products, which could be brought to market quickly and cost-effectively. This strategy was successful until 1996 when the average selling prices of memory products began to decline. To offset the effects of declining selling prices and its impact on revenues from commodity products, we modified our strategy by diversifying our product mix to focus on more value added products. We directed our sales and marketing efforts and new product development resources, towards the data communication and telecommunication end markets. 

     In fiscal 2000, Cypress formed four new divisions designed to enhance our focus on serving end markets. The WAN (Wide Area Networks) and SAN (Storage Area Networks) divisions are helping to provide product definition in the networking arena. Similarly, the WIN (Wireless Infrastructure) and WIT (Wireless Terminals) divisions help focus our efforts in the wireless space. We capture the balance of products in a computation and other category. Our current product lines continue to operate as they have in the past and are still the core internal reporting entities. This new market focus is expected to provide systems knowledge, cross-product-line product portfolio definition, early engagement with strategic accounts and added management of research and new product development resources. 

     Because of the highly competitive nature of the semiconductor industry, its cyclicality and anticipated pressure on average selling prices over the life of any particular product, our ability to successfully implement this strategy and achieve our revenue, earnings and gross margin goals will depend upon a number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, our ability to: 
 

 •  maintain our position in high-performance markets;  

 •  increase our presence in data communications and telecommunications markets;  

 •  continue to successfully design and develop new products utilizing advanced semiconductor design and process technologies in a timely fashion;  

 •  improve manufacturing yields and reduce manufacturing costs and cycle time; and  

 •  effectively market and sell our products in light of significant domestic and international competition.  

     Cypress was incorporated in California in December 1982. The initial public offering of our common stock occurred in May 1986, at which time our common stock commenced trading on the Nasdaq National Market. In February 1987, we reincorporated in Delaware and on October 17, 1988 listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Products
     We have traditionally organized our product offerings in two business segments, memory products and non-memory products. Our memory product segment includes integrated circuits on silicon wafers manufactured using leading edge process technology. A significant portion of the wafers we produce for memory products are manufactured at our technologically advanced, eight-inch wafer production facility located in Bloomington, Minnesota, which we refer to as Fab 4. Some of our products have high unit sales volume and experience significant shifts in supply and demand; these factors mean a potentially greater exposure to fluctuations in average selling price and gross margin. Sales of memory products are generally driven by higher volumes, and results of operations are improved through advancements in technology and attainment of lower manufacturing costs. With its focused communications strategy, Cypress has reduced its dependency on commodity memories. 

Page 3 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     A majority of the wafers we produce for non-memory products are manufactured at our six-inch fab located in Texas, which we refer to as Fab 2. For non-core technologies, we purchase wafers fabricated from other foundries in limited quantities. Unit sales volume of non-memory products are generally lower than memory products, but gross margins are typically higher. Future sales and results of operations of non-memory products are driven by the introduction of new products, design wins and improvements in technology. Because the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, resulting in products with greater speed, densities and performance capabilities and by the continuing evolution of process technologies, our success will continue to depend upon the timely development, introduction and market acceptance of new products in the non-memory products business segment. 

     Please refer to our Note 13 to our annual financial statements included in this Report for detailed information about the composition of revenues from our memory and non-memory product market segments. 

Memory Products
     Our memory products primarily serve the networking, wireless communications and computation markets. 

     Static RAM (Static Random Access Memory). Static RAMs are used for storage and retrieval of data in data communication, telecommunication, computers and other electronic systems. Common applications in the networking markets include hubs, switches, routers, test and measurement instrumentation, video and simulation. Applications in the wireless communication market include cellular phones, pagers, radios, global positioning satellite systems and cellular base stations. 

     The overall static RAM market is characterized by the need for many different densities (number of bits per memory circuit), organizations (number of bits available to the user in a single access of the RAM) and levels of power consumption (low power and ultra-low-power devices are required for portable battery operated equipment). In addition, the market is divided into fast asynchronous, slow micro-power and synchronous sectors. This differentiation of the static RAM market when combined with the different RAM features incorporated by various manufacturers, the need for military, industrial and commercial grade products, the need for different package types, and the grading of product by speed and power, requires a complex product portfolio to serve the diverse needs of these specific markets. Cypress has products in each of the three static RAM sectors (fast asynchronous, slow micro-power and synchronous). We offer parts with densities including 64K, 256K, 512K, 1 Meg, 2 Meg, 3 Meg, 4 Meg, 8 Meg and 9 Meg. We also offer parts with organizations including x1, x4, x8, x16, x18, x24, x32 and x36. Synchronous architectures include NoBL, pipeline and flowthru. 

Non-Memory Products
     Non-memory products include a variety of products that serve the data communications, telecommunications, personal computer, PC peripheral, military and consumer markets. Non-memory products include Physical Layer (“PHY”), data communication, clock and USB products. Key products in the portfolio include our HOTLink optical transceivers, the Roboclock family of clock buffers, our low skew and low jitter programmable clocks, our broad portfolio of specialty multi-port memories and our plug and play USB devices. 

     PHY (PHYsical Layer) Our family of high-performance SONET/SDH (Synchronous Optical Network/Synchronous Digital Hierarchy) transceivers move SONET or SDH frames between equipment at the SONET/SDH data rates of 51.85Mbps (OC-1), 155.52Mbps (OC-3), and 2.488Gbps (OC-48). Our latest addition to this family was the world’s most integrated OC-48 SERDES, which meets the stringent requirements of WAN switches and routers by having Bellcore compliant jitter specifications. 

     HOTLink (High-speed Optical Transceiver Link). Our HOTLink serial transceivers are the industry standard products for moving serial data at rates from 50-400 Mbps. These products support a variety of applications and industrial protocols including fibre channel, enterprise system connection, asynchronous transfer mode, digital video broadcast, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.’s TAXI™ protocol, generic backplane and point-to-point applications. 

Page 4 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     RoboClock. Our RoboClock family of high-performance programmable clock buffers offer very high-performance specifications (i.e. zero propagation delay and 50/50 duty cycle) and programmable features (i.e. programmable skew and multiply/divide functions) allowing customers to compensate for clock skews arising from varying circuit board trace lengths and device set-up and hold times. We recently added the next generation of RoboClock devices by introducing the RoboClock IITM programmable clock skew buffer, which doubles the performance of the original family by operating up to 200-MHz, supporting 18 outputs, and adding more multiply, divide, and skew options. 

     Multi-port Memories. Dual-port and QuadPortTM RAMs are memories that can be accessed by two or four different processors or busses simultaneously. Multi-ports are designed to be memory solutions for shared-memory and switching applications, including networking switches and routers, cellular base stations, mass storage devices, and telecommunication equipment. Our family of synchronous and asynchronous multi-port RAMs range in density from 8 Kbit to 9 Mbit in x8, x9, x16, x18, and x36 configurations. We further enhanced our leadership position in multi-ports by introducing the world’s first 9 Mbit Dual-port and the world’s first high-density (1-megabit) / high-performance (10 Gbps) QuadPort RAM. 

     First-in, First-out (“FIFOs”). FIFOs are used as an elasticity buffer between systems operating at different frequencies. We offer FIFO memories in a variety of high-bandwidth synchronous and asynchronous architectures with industry-standard pinouts. We have recently added 32 new x36 FIFOs and the world’s highest bandwidth FIFO (The Beast™ FIFO) to our portfolio. 

     Programmable Clocks. We are a leader in the timing technology device market primarily due to our clocks and clock distribution circuits. Clocks, or Phase-Locked Loop (“PLL”) based frequency synthesizers, integrate essentially all frequency generation and timing control functions of a communications and/or microprocessor based system, thus reducing size, power consumption and cost. These devices are widely used in personal computers, disk drives, modems, some office/home office (“SOHO”) network routers and hubs, digital video disks, and home video games. We are the only supplier offering true field-programmable clocks, and all our clock outputs have the desired characteristics of high drive, low jitter, low electro-magnetic interference (“EMI”), and low skew. 

     USB (Universal Serial Bus). USB is a four-wire connection between a PC and its peripherals (such as keyboards, mice, printers, joysticks, scanners and modems), facilitating an easy-to-use architecture known as “plug and play.” This new standard has been supported by Microsoft Corporation, Intel Corporation and other large original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs. In 1997, we entered into a strategic alliance with Microsoft to produce our first USB product, an 8-bit, RISC-based microcontroller for Microsoft’s new Internet mouse. In 1999 we acquired Anchor Chips, Inc. to expand our high-performance USB product line. We now make USB microcontrollers for a broad range of peripherals from personal computers, mice and keyboards to high-performance devices such as DSL modems and digital cameras, giving us the broadest USB product portfolio in the industry. 

     PLDs (Programmable Logic Devices). The logic in an electrical system performs the non-memory functions, such as floating-point mathematics or the organization and routing of signals throughout a computer system. This constitutes a significant portion of the circuitry in most systems. We manufacture several families of programmable logic circuits, which are programmable by the user. PLDs facilitate the replacement of many standard logic devices with a single device, thus reducing package count and cost, improving performance and allowing miniaturization. Our PLD portfolio consists of a wide variety of devices ranging from simple PLDs such as the Flash 22V10, to the very-high-density complex PLDs such as the Cypress Ultra37000™, Quantum38K™, and Delta39K™ CPLD families. We have recently added the Programmable Serial Interface (“PSI”) family to our portfolio, which integrates our serial link technology with our Delta39K CPLD products. All our products are supported by the Warp™ software tool set, which enables design description in either VHDL (very high-speed integrated circuit hardware description language), an industry standard developed by Cypress or in Verilog, another industry standard. 

     PROMs (Programmable Read-Only Memories). Read-only memory, referred to as ROM, is a memory in which the data is fixed even when the power is off. ROMs are used to provide start up data to computers when they are turned on. PROMs are blank ROMs that can be customized by the customer to fit specific needs. They are used in computer-peripherals, telecommunications systems and instrumentation equipment which store fixed data that is not to be altered during normal machine operations. We have been a supplier of high-performance CMOS PROMs since 1984. These early devices were the first to combine the fast memory access of PROM with the low power consumption of CMOS technology. We offer a broad family of high-performance PROMs ranging in density from 4K to 256K bits, available in a variety of standard and proprietary user interfaces. 

     Bluetooth. We have announced our entry into the fast-growing wireless PHY market by developing Bluetooth chips. Bluetooth is an industry standard technology that allows short range (3 to 100 meters) communication to take place without wires. Cell phones, PDA’s and PC’s are adopting this standard as a way to exchange data and to connect to the Internet. The technology is also appropriate for printers, scanners, digital cameras as well as mice, keyboards, joysticks, headsets and many other products. Our first Bluetooth chips are expected to be available in 2001. We are evaluating a number of other wireless markets where our low cost development can best be leveraged. 

Page 5 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     PSoC(Programmable System-on-Chip) Microcontrollers. PSoC Microcontrollers are microprocessors used in a wide variety of embedded applications such as communications, industrial control, and consumer products. The entire microprocessor system is implemented on a single chip, but most applications require additional components. The trend is toward increasing the amount of the application that can be placed on a single chip. The Cypress PSoC Microcontroller is the first entry in the marketplace to support both the addition of analog (non-digital) capability and the ability to configure each device to fit each application’s specific device requirements. 

     GLV™ (Grating Light Valve™). The GLV™ technology represents a new approach to the challenge of high resolution, high contrast imaging. To create a GLV™ device, microelectromechanical systems (“MEMS”) techniques are used to form tiny picture elements, or pixels, on the surface of a silicon chip. Each of these pixels is made up of multiple ribbon-like structures, which can be moved up or down over a very small distance by controlling electrostatic forces. The ribbons are arranged such that each pixel is capable of either reflecting or diffracting light, which allows an array of pixels, when appropriately addressed by control signals, to form a pattern of light and dark points on the surface of the chip. An image is created by collecting the reflected or diffracted light with an appropriate lens system, either to be projected onto a front or rear screen system, or to be viewed directly by the eye. This technology has enabled new levels of performance for a variety of display and print applications including high definition television (“HDTV”), digital cinema, simulation and high-resolution digital photofinishing. In addition, the core MEMS technology is being applied in the fast growing optical networking segment. 

Research and Development
     We place great emphasis on research and development (“R&D”). This is partially reflected by our commitment of significant management resources to continuously improve process and product design development cycle time. Our current product strategy requires rapid development of new products using emerging process technologies while minimizing R&D costs. We perform research and development at two levels: research and development related to process technology, and research and development related to new product design. 

     The major focus of our process technology research is the continuous migration to smaller geometries. Currently, we are qualifying our 0.15-micron technology in manufacturing. We are simultaneously developing our 0.12-micron technology in our eight-inch R&D Fab in San Jose, California. This R&D Fab, which was converted from six-inch wafer to eight-inch wafer capability in fiscal 2000, is now compatible with our manufacturing Fab in Minnesota. 

     In July 2000, Cypress entered into an agreement with Mosel Vitelic (“Mosel”) to jointly develop a 0.12-micron process technology, to be deployed initially in Cypress’s R&D Fab in San Jose. Under the agreement, Mosel engineers will work with Cypress’s existing Fab 1 research and development team on defining a 0.12-micron manufacturing process. Cypress and Mosel also agreed over time to share some of the costs of purchasing new equipment to facilitate tighter process geometries. The agreement will allow Cypress and Mosel to continue to offer cutting-edge process technology, which we expect will produce new high-performance, market-leading products more economically and quickly. 

     We have a central design group that focuses on new product design and improvement of design methodologies. This group has ongoing efforts to reduce design cycle time and increase first pass yield through structured re-use of intellectual property (“IP”) blocks from a controlled IP library, development of computer-aided design tools and improved design business processes. We currently have 50 design teams in place working on new product designs. Design and related software development work primarily occurs at centers located in the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland and India. 

Manufacturing
     In fiscal 2000, we continued to manufacture our products at two sub-micron wafer fabrication facilities located in Minnesota and Texas. These fabrication facilities utilize our proprietary 0.25 through 0.8-micron CMOS, 0.25 and 0.8-micron BiCMOS, and 0.65-micron Flash technologies. To enhance our competitive position, we emphasized programs to reduce manufacturing cycle times, reduce die size, improve labor productivity, improve efficient use of capital resources, eliminate manufacturing steps, improve defect densities, improve yields and ultimately lower manufacturing costs. We invested $258 million in fiscal 2000 to increase the capacity and capability of our primary wafer fabrication plants, Fab 2 and Fab 4. We invested $20 million in fiscal 2000 to upgrade our San Jose Fab to eight-inch capability. We have continued to use various foundries to augment production on non-core technologies. We intend to focus on developing RAM and BiCMOS technologies in our own wafer fabrication plants. 

Page 6 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source available for these materials; however, there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet our standards. New suppliers must go through a qualification process. Raw materials used are subject to testing and quality control inspections. The availability of raw materials used in the manufacture of semiconductors is subject to fluctuation as worldwide demand for semiconductors increases or decreases. 

     A significant portion of our assembly and test operations is performed by our highly automated assembly and test facility in the Philippines, which accounted for over 40% of our fiscal 2000 output, the balance being performed by various offshore subcontractors. Our Philippines facility primarily manufactures high volume products and packages where our ability to significantly leverage manufacturing costs is high. The Philippines plant currently has capability for numerous types of packaging and testing and will be developing the capability for several other packages in the near future. In fiscal 2000, we invested $11 million in capital to expand our Philippines’ manufacturing capability with state-of-the-art equipment. When fully utilized, this plant is expected to provide approximately 57% of our assembly and test manufacturing capacity. 

     The complicated nature of our wafer fabrication process often results in certain wafers being rejected or individual die on each wafer to be non-functional, adversely affecting manufacturing yields. Similar yield losses may be experienced in the assembly and test phase of manufacturing. Our philosophy is to prevent the yield loss and/or quality problems to the extent possible through analytical and statistical manufacturing controls. We test our products at various stages in the fabrication, assembly and test processes. We perform high temperature burn-in testing as well as continuous reliability monitoring on our products, and conduct numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production flow using quality control analytic equipment. This combination of manufacturing controls, product testing and quality control inspections is intended to reduce costs while maintaining an uninterrupted supply of product. 

     During fiscal 2000, Cypress began work on enterprise-wide order management, manufacturing planning and distribution information systems, in order to improve manufacturing cycle times, customer responsiveness and delivery. These projects will be completed in 2001. 

Marketing and Sales
     We use four channels to sell our products: direct OEM sales by our sales force; sales by manufacturing representative firms; sales through domestic distributors; and sales through international trading companies and representative firms. Our marketing and sales efforts are organized around four regions: North America, Europe, Japan and Asia/Pacific. We also have a strategic accounts group and a contract manufacturing group, which are responsible for specific customers with worldwide operations. We augment our sales effort with field application engineers, who are specialists in our product portfolio and work with customers to “design in” our products for their systems. Field application engineers also help us identify emerging markets and new products. 

     International revenues accounted for 49% of our total revenues in fiscal 2000 compared to 49% in 1999 and 43% in 1998, respectively. Please refer to Note 13 to our annual financial statements included with this Report for additional information on geographic distribution of our revenues. Sales to Motorola, Inc. accounted for 10.9% of total revenues in fiscal 2000. Sales to two distributors accounted for greater than 10% of total revenues in fiscal 2000; sales to one distributor accounted for greater than 10% of total revenues in 1999 and 1998. Sales to Arrow Electronics, Inc. were 18.0%, 19.1% and 29.4% in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Sales to Future Electronics Corporation were 14.1% of total revenues in fiscal 2000. 

     We typically warrant our products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year and that product warranty is generally limited to a refund of the original purchase price of the product. 

Backlog
     Our sales are typically made using standard purchase orders for delivery of catalog products. Customer relationships are generally not subject to long-term contracts. However, Cypress has entered into long-term supply agreements with Alcatel Alsthom S.A., Cisco Systems, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Intel Corporation, Lucent Technologies, Inc., Motorola, Inc., Nortel Networks Corporation, Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., Solectron Corporation and ST Microelectronics N.V. Products to be delivered and the related delivery schedules are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs. For these reasons, our backlog at any particular date is not representative of actual sales for any succeeding period, and we believe that our backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future revenues. 

Page 7 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Competition
     We face competition from other domestic and foreign high-performance integrated circuit manufacturers, many of which have advanced technological capabilities and have increased their participation in the markets in which we operate. We compete with a large number of companies primarily in the telecommunications, data communications, personal computer, personal computer peripheral and military markets. Our competitors, including Altera Corporation, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Hitachi Ltd., Integrated Device Technology, Inc., Integrated Circuit Systems, Inc., Integrated Silicon Solutions, Inc., Motorola, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, PMC-Sierra, Inc., Samsung Corporation, Texas Instruments Incorporated, Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation, and Xilinx, Inc., target certain markets and compete directly with our products. Competition is based on various factors that can vary among products and markets. These factors include design and quality of the products, product performance, price and service. 

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. This intense competition results in a difficult operating environment for most companies in the industry, including Cypress. This environment is characterized by potential erosion of product sale prices over the lives of each product, rapid technological change, limited product life cycles and strong domestic and foreign competition in many markets. Our ability to compete successfully in a rapidly evolving high-performance end of the semiconductor technology spectrum depends on many factors, including: 
 

•  our success in developing new products and manufacturing technologies; 

•  the delivery performance, quality and price of our products; 

•  the diversity of our product line; 

•  the cost effectiveness of our design, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts; 

•  the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their systems, and  

•  the number and nature of our competitors and general economic conditions.  

     We believe that we currently compete effectively in the above areas to the extent they are within our control; however, given the pace at which events change in the industry, our current abilities are not a guarantee of future success. If we are not able to compete successfully in this environment, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. 

Patents and Licenses
     We currently have over 500 patents and approximately 400 additional patent applications on file with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We are preparing to file more than 120 new patent applications. In addition to factors such as innovation, technological expertise and experienced personnel, we believe that patents are increasingly important to remaining competitive in our industry. We have an active program to acquire additional patent and other intellectual property protection. 

     We have, and in the future may continue to, enter into technology license agreements with third parties that give those parties the right to use patents and other technology developed by us. Some of these agreements also give us the right to use patents and other technologies developed by such other parties, some of which involve payment of royalties. 

     The patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, and the rights granted under these patents may in any case not provide competitive advantage to us. We are, and may in the future be, involved in litigation with respect to alleged infringement or involved in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. To the extent we rely on technology developed by other companies in our product, we cannot be certain that license agreements will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms in the future. 

Mergers and Acquisitions
     During fiscal 2000 we completed acquisitions of four companies: Silicon Light Machines (“SLM”), RadioCom Corporation (“RadioCom”), Alation Systems, Inc. (“Alation”), and Galvantech, Inc. (“Galvantech”). 

Page 8 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     SLM is a supplier of MEMS technology applicable to fiber-optic networks and other applications. SLM licensed its MEMS-based Grating Light Valve™ (GLV™) technology to Sony Corporation for state-of-the-art display applications. Cypress aims to leverage SLM technology to complement its product and intellectual property portfolio targeted at the optical networking business and to accelerate its penetration of the market for pure optical and optoelectronic networking components. The acquisition also aligns Cypress’s product development roadmap with those of its strategic networking customers. 

     RadioCom is a corporation specializing in the design and development of semiconductor radio frequency (“RF”) integrated circuits. The acquisition was made to further accelerate our penetration of the exploding wireless handset market, where we currently offer our ultra-low-power MoBL™ (More Battery Life™) static RAMs and our low-noise Radio Frequency Phase-Locked Loop (“RF PLL”) product family used in cellular handsets. 

     Alation is engaged in the design, development and marketing of wireless home networking products and technologies. Alation has a deep portfolio of intellectual property in analog, DSP and RF baseband technology, as well as software and systems expertise in the fast-growing wireless arena. We believe the Alation acquisition will accelerate Cypress’s ongoing penetration of wireless environments, positioning us for success in emerging mobile computing markets. 

     Cypress combined the capabilities of RadioCom, Alation and its own highly successful USB business to focus on providing integrated, cost-effective solutions for Bluetooth, wireless LAN and other wireless protocols, along with microcontroller solutions for current and future iterations of USB. 

     Galvantech specializes in ultra-high performance memories for data communications applications. Galvantech had important design wins at strategic Cypress communications accounts, such as Lucent Technologies Inc. and Cisco Systems, Inc., and at startup communications companies, such as Redback Networks, Inc. and Extreme Networks, Inc. Galvantech’s products target specialized applications that require ultra-fast memories at the highest densities with maximum bandwidth. The acquisition marks a milestone in Cypress’s strategy to focus on specialized memories for data communication markets. 

Employees
     As of December 31, 2000, we and our subsidiaries had 4,435 employees, compared to 3,859 at the end of fiscal 1999. Headcount growth in fiscal 2000 occurred mostly in the engineering and manufacturing disciplines. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we ever experienced work stoppages. 

Risk Factors
     The discussion in this 10-K report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, but not limited to, statements as to the future operating results and business plans, that involve risks and uncertainties. We use such words as “anticipated,” “believes,” “expects,” “future,” “intends,” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for any reason, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. 

Our future operating results are unusually likely to fluctuate and therefore may fail to meet expectations. 

     Our operating results have varied widely in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. In addition, our operating results may not follow any past trends. Our future operating results will depend on many factors and may fluctuate and fail to meet our expectations or those of others for a variety of reasons, including the following: 
 

•  the intense competitive pricing pressure to which our products are subject, which can lead to rapid and unexpected declines in average selling prices; 

•  the complexity of our manufacturing processes and the sensitivity of our production costs to declines in manufacturing yields, which make yield problems both possible and costly when they occur; and 

•  the need for constant, rapid, new product introductions which present an ongoing design and manufacturing challenge, which can be significantly impacted by even relatively minor errors, and which may result in products never achieving expected market demand. 



Page 9 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     As a result of these or other factors we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future revenues, gross profit and income from operations. Any downward fluctuation or failure to meet expectations will likely adversely affect the value of your investment in Cypress. 

     In addition, because we recognize revenues from sales to our domestic distributors and consignment customers only when sales are made to end customers, we are highly dependent on the accuracy of their resale estimates. The occurrence of inaccurate estimates also contributes to the difficulty in predicting our quarterly revenue and results of operations. 

We face periods of industry-wide semiconductor over-supply that harm our results.
     The semiconductor industry has historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, semiconductors. These fluctuations have helped produce many occasions when supply and demand for semiconductors have not been in balance. In the past, these industry-wide fluctuations in demand, which have resulted in under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity, have harmed our operating results. In some cases, industry downturns with these characteristics have lasted more than a year. If these cycles continue, they will seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Our financial results could be seriously harmed if the markets in which we sell our products do not grow.
     Our continued success depends in large part on the continued growth of various electronics industries that use our semiconductors, including the following industries: 
 

•  networking equipment; 

•  wireless telecommunications equipment; 

•  computers and computer related peripherals; 

•  military equipment; and 

•  consumer electronics, automotive electronics and industrial controls. 

     A significant portion of our products are incorporated into data communications and telecommunications end-products. Any decline in the demand for networking applications, mass storage, telecommunications, cellular base stations, cellular handsets and other personal communication devices that incorporate our products could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, certain of our products, including USB microcontrollers and high-frequency clocks are incorporated into computer and computer-related products, which have historically and may in the future experience significant fluctuations in demand. We may also be seriously harmed by slower growth in the other markets in which we sell our products. 

We are affected by a general pattern of product price decline and fluctuations, which can harm our business.
     Even in the absence of an industry downturn, the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased during the products’ lives, and we expect this trend to continue. In order to offset selling price decreases, we attempt to decrease manufacturing costs of our products, and to introduce new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts are not successful or do not occur in a timely manner, or if our newly introduced products do not gain market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. 

     In addition to following the general pattern of decreasing average selling prices, the selling prices for certain products, particularly commodity products, fluctuate significantly with real and perceived changes in the balance of supply and demand for these products. In the event we are unable to decrease per unit manufacturing costs at a rate equal to or faster than the rate at which selling prices continue to decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. Furthermore, we expect our competitors to invest in new manufacturing capacity and achieve significant manufacturing yield improvements in the future. These developments could dramatically increase the worldwide supply of competitive products and result in associated downward pressure on prices. 

We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, and may face significant expenses as a result of ongoing or future litigation.
Page 10 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     Protection of our intellectual property rights is essential to keep others from copying the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. Consequently, we may become involved in litigation to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of invalidity. This type of litigation can be expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose. 

     We are now and may again become involved in litigation relating to alleged infringement by us of others’ patents or other intellectual property rights. This type of litigation is frequently expensive to both the winning party and the losing party and could take up significant amounts of management’s time and attention. In addition, if we lose such a lawsuit, a court could require us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties or prohibit us from using essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this type of litigation could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, although we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms or at all. 

     For a variety of reasons, we have entered into technology license agreements with third parties that give those parties the right to use patents and other technology developed by us, and that give us the right to use patents and other technology developed by them. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into these kinds of licensing arrangements in the future. It is possible however, that licenses we want will not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we lose existing licenses to key technology, or are unable to enter into new licenses, which we deem important, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. 

     It is critical to our success that we be able to prevent competitors from copying our innovations. We therefore intend to continue to seek patent, trade secret and mask work protection for our semiconductor manufacturing technologies. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around the patents we own. 

     We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, others may come to know about or determine our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 

Our financial results could be adversely impacted if we fail to develop, introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new manufacturing technologies.
     Like many semiconductor companies, which frequently operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that customers choose to buy. We introduce significant numbers of products each year, which are an important source of revenue for us. If we fail to introduce new product designs in a timely manner or are unable to manufacture products according to the requirements of these designs (discussed more below), or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating ours, or market demand for our new products does not exist as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. 

     For Cypress and many other semiconductor companies, introduction of new products is a major manufacturing challenge. The new products the market requires tend to be increasingly complex, incorporating more functions and operating at faster speeds than previous products. Increasing complexity generally requires smaller features on a chip. This makes manufacturing new generations of products substantially more difficult than prior generations. Ultimately, our ability to successfully introduce these and other new products depends on developing and implementing new methods of manufacturing semiconductors. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. 

Interruptions in the availability of raw materials can seriously harm our financial performance.
     Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source available for these materials, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet our standards. If we need to use other companies as suppliers, they must go through a qualification process. In addition, the raw materials we need for our business could become more scarce as worldwide demand for semiconductors increases. Interruption of our sources of raw materials could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Page 11 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Problems in the performance of other companies we hire to perform certain manufacturing tasks can seriously harm our financial performance. 

     A high percentage of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our manufacturing facility located in the Philippines. We rely on independent subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products. This reliance involves certain risks, because we have less control over manufacturing quality and delivery schedules, whether these companies have adequate capacity to meet our needs and whether or not they discontinue or phase-out assembly processes we require. We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us, and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so. 

The complex nature of our manufacturing activities makes us highly susceptible to manufacturing problems and these problems can have substantial negative impact on us when they occur. 

     Making semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Very small impurities in our manufacturing materials, difficulties in the wafer fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, and other factors, can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. We may experience problems in achieving an acceptable success rate in the manufacture of wafers, and the likelihood of facing such difficulties is higher in connection with the transition to new manufacturing methods. The interruption of wafer fabrication or the failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields at any of our facilities would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and test operations and in the introduction of new packaging materials. 

We may not be able to use all of our existing or future manufacturing capacity, which can negatively impact our business. 

     We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant amounts of money to upgrade and increase our wafer fabrication, assembly and test manufacturing capability and capacity. If we do not need some of this capacity and capability for any of a variety of reasons, including inadequate demand or a significant shift in the mix of product orders that makes our existing capacity and capability inadequate or in excess of our actual needs, our fixed cost per semiconductor produced will increase, which will harm us. In addition, if the need for more advanced products requires accelerated conversion to technologies capable of manufacturing semiconductors having smaller features, or requires the use of larger wafers, we are likely to face higher operating expenses and may need to write-off capital equipment made obsolete by the technology conversion, either of which could seriously harm our business and results of operations. 

Our operations and financial results could be severely harmed by certain natural disasters. 

     Our headquarters and some manufacturing facilities and some of our major vendors’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster occurs, we could suffer damages that could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, or increased costs of energy could harm our business
     Our process R&D facility and our corporate offices are located in California, which is currently susceptible to power outages and shortages as well as increased energy costs. To limit downtime exposure, Cypress uses back-up generators and power supplies in its main California facilities. While the majority of our production and design R&D facilities are not located in California, more extensive power shortages in the state could delay our process research development as well as increase our operating costs. 

Our business, results of operations and financial condition will be seriously harmed if we fail to successfully compete in our highly competitive industry and markets. 

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. This intense competition results in a difficult operating environment for us and most other semiconductor companies that is marked by erosion of average selling prices over the lives of each product, rapid technological change, limited product life cycles and strong domestic and foreign competition in many markets. A primary cause of this highly competitive environment is the strength of our competitors. The industry consists of major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. We face competition from other domestic and foreign high-performance integrated circuit manufacturers, many of which have advanced technological capabilities and have increased their participation in markets that are important to us. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, operating results and financial condition will be seriously harmed. 

Page 12 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving high-performance portion of the semiconductor technology industry depends on many factors, including: 
 

•  our success in developing new products and manufacturing technologies;  

•  the quality and price of our products;  

•  the diversity of our product line;  

•  the cost effectiveness of our design, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts;  

•  the pace at which customers incorporate our products into their systems, and  

•  the number and nature of our competitors and general economic conditions.  

     Although we believe we currently compete effectively in the above areas to the extent they are within our control, given the pace of change in the industry, our current abilities are not a guarantee of future success. 

We must build semiconductors based on our forecasts of demand, and if our forecasts are inaccurate, we may have large amounts of unsold products or we may not be able to fill all orders. 

     We order materials and build semiconductors based primarily on our internal forecasts, and secondarily on existing orders, which may be cancelled under many circumstances. Consequently, we depend on our forecasts to determine inventory levels for our products and the amount of manufacturing capacity that we need. Because our markets are volatile and subject to rapid technological and price changes, our forecasts may be wrong, and we may make too many or too few of certain products or have too much or too little manufacturing capacity. Also, our customers frequently place orders requesting product delivery almost immediately after the order is made, which makes forecasting customer demand even more difficult. The above factors also make it difficult to forecast quarterly operating results. If we are unable to predict accurately the appropriate amount of product required to meet customer demand, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. 

We must spend heavily on equipment to stay competitive, and will be adversely impacted if we are unable to secure financing for such investments. 

     In order to remain competitive, semiconductor manufacturers generally must spend heavily on equipment to maintain or increase manufacturing capacity and capability. We have budgeted for approximately $280.9 million in expenditures on equipment in fiscal 2001 and anticipate significant continuing capital expenditures in subsequent years. In the past, we have reinvested a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations in capacity expansion and improvement programs. However, our cash flows from operations depend primarily on average selling prices, which generally decline over time, and on the per-unit cost of our products. 

     If we are unable to decrease costs for our products at a rate at commensurate with the decline in selling prices for such products, we may not be able to generate enough cash flow from operations to maintain or increase manufacturing capability and capacity as necessary. In such a situation we would need to seek financing from external sources to satisfy our needs for manufacturing equipment and, potentially for operational cash needs as well. Such financing, however, may not be available on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations would be seriously harmed. 

We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract such personnel would harm us. 

     To a greater degree than most non-technology companies, we depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key management and technical personnel. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel, and to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product and process engineers. We compete for these individuals with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. If we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. 

Page 13 
 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We face additional problems and uncertainties associated with international operations that could seriously harm us. 

     International sales represented approximately 49% of our revenues during fiscal 2000. Our offshore assembly and test operations, as well as our international sales, face risks frequently associated with foreign operations, including: 
 

•  currency exchange fluctuations, 

•  political instability, 

•  changes in local economic conditions, 

•  the devaluation of local currencies, 

•  import and export controls, and 

•  changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates. 

     To the extent any such risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. 

We are subject to many different environmental regulations, and compliance with them may be costly. 

     We are subject to many different governmental regulations related to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. In addition, over the last several years, the public has paid a great deal of attention to the potentially negative environmental impact of semiconductor manufacturing operations. This attention and other factors may lead to changes in environmental regulations that could force us to purchase additional equipment or comply with other potentially costly requirements. If we fail to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could face substantial liability or suspension of our manufacturing operations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

We depend on third parties to transport our products and could be harmed if these parties experience problems. 

     We rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers. We have limited control over these parties; however, any transport or delivery problems because of their errors, or because of unforeseen interruptions in their activities due to factors such as strikes, political instability, natural disasters and accidents, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers. 

We may fail to integrate our business and technologies with those of companies that we have recently acquired and that we may acquire in the future. 

     We completed four acquisitions in calendar 2000, completed in 2001 the acquisition of International Microcircuits, Inc. (“IMI”), announced the pending acquisition of HiBand Semiconductors, Inc. (“HiBand”), and may pursue additional acquisitions in the future. If we fail to successfully or properly integrate these businesses, our quarterly and annual results may be seriously harmed. Integrating additional businesses, products and services could be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources. Specific issues that we face with regard to prior and future acquisitions include: 
 

•  the difficulty of integrating acquired technology or products;  

•  the difficulty of assimilating the personnel of the acquired companies;  

•  the difficulty of coordinating and integrating geographically dispersed operations;  

•  our ability to retain customers of the acquired company;  

•  the potential disruption of our on-going business and distraction of management;  

•  the maintenance of brand recognition of acquired businesses;  

•  the failure to successfully develop acquired in-process technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; 

•  unanticipated expenses related to technology integration; 

•  the maintenance of uniform standards, corporate cultures, controls, procedures and policies; 

•  the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; and 

•  the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. 

