Item 1.           Business

General

     Diodes Incorporated (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation,  is engaged in
the  manufacture,  sale and distribution of discrete  semiconductors  worldwide,
primarily  to  manufacturers  in  the  communications,   computing,  industrial,
consumer  electronics and automotive markets,  and to distributors of electronic
components to end customers in these markets.  The Company's  broad product line
includes   high-density   diode  and   transistor   arrays  in   ultra-miniature
surface-mount  packages,  as well as silicon wafers used in manufacturing  these
products.  Technologies  include high  density  diode and  transistor  arrays in
multi-pin surface-mount packages;  PowermiteR3,  high-performance  surface-mount
packages; performance Schottkys, switching and rectifier diodes; single and dual
prebiased transistors; performance tight tolerance and low current zener diodes;
subminiature  surface mount packages;  transient  voltage  suppressors  (TVS and
TSPD); small signal transistors and MOSFETs; and standard, fast, ultra-fast, and
super-fast rectifiers.

     Positioning  the  Company to rapidly  respond to the  demands of the global
marketplace   and   continuing  to  increase  its  investment  in  research  and
development,  the  Company is focused on  expanding  its product  portfolio  and
closely  controlling product quality and  time-to-market.  Shifting  development
priorities toward specialized configurations, such as the Company's high-density
array  devices,  the Company is introducing a range of new products that improve
the trade-off between size,  performance and power consumption for surface-mount
packages,  such as the Company's  BAT750 Schottky  rectifier and SOT-523 product
lines.  These  product  lines are  designed  for  battery-powered  and  handheld
applications,  such as those used in the computer and communications industries;
specifically, wireless devices, notebooks, flat panel displays, digital cameras,
mobile  handsets,  set top boxes,  as well as DC to DC conversion and automotive
electronic applications.

     In addition to the Company's  corporate  headquarters in Westlake  Village,
California,  which  provides  sales,  marketing,   engineering,   logistics  and
warehousing  functions,  the Company's  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Diodes Taiwan
Corporation,   Ltd.  ("Diodes-Taiwan"),   maintains  a  sales,  engineering  and
purchasing  facility in Taipei,  Taiwan.  The Company also has a 95% interest in
Shanghai  KaiHong  Electronics  Co.,  Ltd.   ("Diodes-China"  or  "KaiHong"),  a
manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China, and offices in Shanghai and Shenzhen,
China.  In March 2002,  the Company  opened a sales,  warehousing  and logistics
subsidiary in Hong Kong ("Diodes-Hong Kong"). In addition, in December 2000, the
Company acquired FabTech Incorporated ("Diodes-FabTech" or "FabTech"), a silicon
wafer manufacturer  located near Kansas City,  Missouri.  An office in Toulouse,
France supports the Company's European sales expansion.

     Lite-On   Semiconductor   Corporation   ("LSC"),   formerly  Lite-On  Power
Semiconductor  Corporation  ("LPSC"),  is  the  Company's  largest  stockholder,
holding  approximately  36.5% of the outstanding  shares. LSC is a member of The
Lite-On  Group of companies of the Republic of China.  The Lite-On  Group,  with
worldwide  sales of  approximately  $4.5 billion,  is a leading  manufacturer of
power  semiconductors,  computer  peripherals,  and communication  products.  In
December 2000, LPSC merged with Dyna Image  Corporation of Taipei,  Taiwan,  the
world's  largest contact image sensor ("CIS")  manufacturer.  CISs are primarily
used in fax  machines,  scanners and copy  machines.  C.H.  Chen,  the Company's
President and Chief Executive Officer, is Vice Chairman of the combined company,
which is called LSC.

Strategy

     The  Company's  business  strategy  is to  become a  vertically  integrated
manufacturer and supplier of discrete  semiconductors,  to expand the geographic
reach of its sales  organization into high growth and/or under serviced markets,
and to pursue manufacturing efficiency across its product lines.

     The  Company   intends  to  control  the   manufacturing   and  manage  the
distribution  process,  from product concept to  manufacturing,  packaging,  and
distribution. The anticipated benefits to this strategy include:

o        Better control of product quality;
o        Faster time-to-market for new products;
o        Ability to customize devices to customer requirements;
o        Ability to develop and market devices that are  differentiated  in the
          marketplace with proprietary  processes and designs; and,
o        Improved access to wafers and devices in limited supply conditions.

                                       2
<PAGE>

     The Company  believes that this strategy will enable it to develop stronger
relationships  with existing  customers  and  distributors,  participate  at new
customers  and in new  markets,  shift its sales mix to  include  higher  margin
devices, and create greater differentiation for the Diodes brand.

     In order to become a vertically integrated  manufacturer and supplier,  the
Company  integrates  six  areas  of  operations:   sales,   marketing,   product
development, wafer foundry, package development, and assembly/testing.

     Historically,  discrete  semiconductors have been characterized by a slower
rate of innovation  and lower  value-added  than  integrated  circuits  ("ICs").
However,  the  Company  believes  that  changes  in  the  consumer  electronics,
communications  and  computing  industries  have  created  a  need  for  renewed
innovation in discrete  semiconductor  technology.  The proliferation of mobile,
battery-powered  devices has placed a premium on smaller  size and lower  energy
consumption.  The Company's product  development  efforts are focused on devices
that reduce size and power consumption,  increase performance and simplify board
design.

     In December 2000, the Company  acquired  FabTech  Incorporated  in order to
develop higher  technology  products that command higher margins,  as well as to
fulfill its silicon wafer  requirements.  Diodes-FabTech  has the  manufacturing
equipment,  facilities  and  technology  to produce  finished  wafers  ready for
assembly, as well as the experienced engineering team required to develop higher
technology  products.  These  new high  technology  products  are  widening  the
Company's product line while increasing its value to customers.

     In  2002,  the  Company  continued  to  increase  its  rate of new  product
introductions  and  developed  a  number  of  products  that it  believes  to be
differentiated  in the  marketplace.  While many  competitors are able to devote
vastly greater  resources to research and  development  activities,  the Company
believes that its product focus,  customer-driven development approach and rapid
development  cycle will enable it to develop  products that provide higher value
to its customers. The Company's research and development activities are oriented
towards  improving  on  industry  standard  devices  at the  process,  wafer and
packaging  level. In addition,  the Company's  applications  engineers work with
customers to develop applications  specific packaging and device  configurations
to meet their specific needs.

     In addition to becoming a vertically integrated  manufacturer and supplier,
the Company  intends to continue to expand its existing  sales force in Asia and
Europe.  The  Company  significantly  expanded  its Asian sales force to capture
market share in Taiwan,  China,  Hong Kong,  Singapore and other  Southeast Asia
markets,  as well as Korea.  The Company also is  developing  sales  channels in
Europe to capture  market share in countries such as England,  France,  Germany,
Italy  and  Israel,   among  others.  The  Company  targets  original  equipment
manufacturers ("OEMs") directly, as well as leveraging its expanded distribution
network.

     In 2002,  the  Company  invested  approximately  $7.7  million in plant and
equipment at its Diodes-China manufacturing facility,  bringing the total amount
invested to approximately $52.9 million.  The Company will continue to invest in
Diodes-China as new packaging opportunities arise. Diodes-China is the Company's
packaging and testing facility in Mainland China. Diodes-China uses chips or die
from  silicon  wafers  and  manufactures  them into  various  packaged  finished
devices.

Recent Results

     The discrete semiconductor industry has historically been subject to severe
pricing pressures. At times, although manufacturing costs have decreased, excess
manufacturing capacity and over-inventory have caused selling prices to decrease
to a  greater  extent  than  manufacturing  costs.  To  compete  in this  highly
competitive industry, the Company has committed substantial new resources to the
further  development and  implementation of sales and marketing  functions,  and
expanded manufacturing capabilities. Emphasizing the Company's focus on customer
service,  additional sales personnel and programs have been added,  primarily in
Asia, and most recently Europe.  In order to meet customers' needs at the design
stage  of  end-product  development,   the  Company  also  continues  to  employ
additional  applications  engineers who work  directly with  customers to assist
them in "designing in" the correct products to produce optimum results. Regional
sales managers in the U.S., working closely with  manufacturers'  representative
firms  and  distributors,  have  also  been  added  to help  satisfy  customers'
requirements.  In addition,  the Company continues to develop relationships with
major distributors who inventory and sell the Company's products.

     Beginning  in the second  half of 1999,  and  continuing  through the first
three  quarters  of  2000,  industry  demand  significantly   exceeded  industry
capacity. In addition, OEM customers and distributors increased their purchasing
and inventory levels in anticipation of further increases in end-product demand.
The Company's  gross profit margin  reached a peak of 34.9% in the third quarter
of 2000.

                                       3
<PAGE>

     Then, as semiconductor  manufacturers,  including the Company, continued to
increase  manufacturing  capacity,  the global  economy  slowed  causing a sharp
decline in sales  beginning  in the fourth  quarter of 2000.  The  semiconductor
industry as a whole  experienced a sharp inventory  correction  primarily in two
key markets,  communications  and computers.  The effect on the Company of these
unforeseen  economic  and market  conditions,  and the risks of becoming a fully
integrated  manufacturer were amplified with the December 2000 completion of the
wafer  facility  acquisition  because  of the fixed  costs  associated  with the
additional manufacturing facility.

     Although the  Company's  market share  increased in 2001,  average  selling
prices for  discrete  products  decreased  approximately  23% and silicon  wafer
pricing fell  approximately  12%. Due to decreased  demand in 2001,  the Company
also experienced  reduced capacity  utilization of its manufacturing  facilities
and  demand-induced  changes in product mix, both of which had a negative impact
on  gross  margins.   Due  to  market   conditions,   capacity   utilization  at
Diodes-FabTech  decreased  to 45%,  while  Diodes-China's  utilization  was 52%,
during the third quarter of 2001.

     During 2001, the Company responded to the downturn by implementing programs
to cut  operating  costs,  including  reducing its  worldwide  workforce by 26%,
primarily  at  the  FabTech  and  Diodes-China  manufacturing  facilities.  Some
improvement  was seen in the fourth  quarter of 2001 when  capacity  utilization
increased to 65% and 60% for Diodes-China and Diodes-FabTech,  respectively, but
gross margins still ended the year at 15.2%.

     Year 2002  continued  to be a year where  demand  improved,  the  Company's
manufacturing  capacity  utilization  increased,  and  pricing  pressures  eased
somewhat.  Average  selling  prices  decreased  approximately  8%  for  discrete
products and 1% for wafer  products.  Gross margins  increased from 16.2% in the
first  quarter  to a high of  26.0% in the  third  quarter  when  Diodes-China's
capacity utilization reached approximately 88% and Diodes-FabTech  approximately
83%. The gross margin was 23.0% for the year.

     The Company  continues to actively adjust its cost structure as dictated by
market  conditions.  Long-term,  the Company  believes  that it will continue to
generate  value for  shareholders  and  customers,  not just  from its  expanded
Diodes-China  manufacturing and Diodes-FabTech's foundry assets, but also by the
addition  of  an  enhanced  technology  component  to  the  Company.  This  is a
multi-year  initiative  that will  increase the  Company's  ability to serve its
customers'  needs,  while  establishing the Company at the forefront of the next
generation of discrete technologies.

     In December  2002,  the Company  completed its  implementation  of Oracle's
Enterprise Resource Planning ("ERP") software. The Company anticipates increased
efficiency   through   improved   management   of  its  global   supply   chain,
manufacturing, planning and financial reporting.

     In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statements of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 141,  Business  Combinations,  and No. 142,
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2001. Under the new rules,  goodwill (and intangible  assets deemed
to have  indefinite  lives) will no longer be  amortized  but will be subject to
annual  impairment  tests in accordance  with the Statements.  Other  intangible
assets will continue to be amortized  over their useful  lives.  The Company has
applied the new rules on accounting for goodwill  beginning in the first quarter
of 2002.  An  independent  appraiser,  retained by the  Company,  performed  the
required  impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets as
of January 1, 2002, and January 1, 2003, and has determined that the goodwill is
fully  recoverable.  Application  of  the  non-amortization  provisions  of  the
Statements  is expected to result in an increase in net income of  approximately
$288,000 per year, assuming no impairment adjustment.

Products

     Technology in the semiconductor  industry is ever changing and the products
traditionally  sold by the Company have been mature products.  But the additions
of state-of-the-art  surface-mount  manufacturing capability at Diodes-China and
our newly acquired wafer fabrication facility, Diodes-FabTech,  have enabled the
Company to advance  technologically with the industry leaders, and to move ahead
in technical  advances in both silicon  technology  and product  implementation.
These new technologies will offer higher profit and growth potential.

         Product Technology

     Semiconductors come in two basic  configurations:  discrete  semiconductors
and  integrated  circuits  ("ICs").  The Company is engaged in the  manufacture,
sale, and  distribution  of discrete  semiconductors,  which are  fixed-function
components such as:

                                       4
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                               <C>                              <C>

Schottky Rectifiers                                Standard Recovery Rectifiers    Transient Voltage Suppressors ("TVS")
Schottky Diodes                                    Bridge Rectifiers               NPN Transistors
Super-Fast & Ultra-Fast Recovery Rectifiers        Switching Diodes                PNP Transistors
Fast Recovery Rectifiers                           Zener Diodes                    MOSFET - N-Channel
MOSFET - P-Channel
</TABLE>

     In  terms  of  function,   IC's  are  far  more   complex   than   discrete
semiconductors.  They are  multi-function  devices of the sort found in computer
memory boards and central processing units. IC's, characterized by rapid changes
in both production and application, and the desire to put ever-more intelligence
into  ever-smaller  packages,  have required the  development  of  manufacturing
techniques that are highly sophisticated and expensive.

     Discrete semiconductors, which effectively tie integrated circuits to their
surrounding   environments  and  enable  them  to  work,  come  in  hundreds  of
permutations and vary according to voltage,  current,  power handling capability
and switching  speed.  In a standard  industry  classification,  those  discrete
semiconductors  operating  at less than one watt are  referred  to as  low-power
semiconductors,  while those operating at greater than one watt are termed power
semiconductors.  Both types of semiconductors  are found in a wide assortment of
commercial  instrumentation  and communication  equipment,  in consumer products
like  televisions  and  telephones,  and in automotive,  computer and industrial
electronic products.

     Arrays  bridge the gap between  discrete  semiconductors  and IC's.  Arrays
consist of more than one discrete  semiconductor housed in a single package. The
Company  added  about 100 new 6-pin  surface  mount  array  part  numbers to its
semiconductor  offering.  With  the  flexibility  of  domestic  engineering  and
fast-reaction  manufacturing  facilities in the Far East, the Company is finding
interest in its offering of Application Specific Multi-Chip Circuit arrays.

     Silicon  wafers are the basic raw material  used in producing  all types of
semiconductors.  Many highly  sophisticated and tightly controlled processes are
used to develop finished  semiconductor  wafers from the raw starting  material.
They include high precision lapping and polishing,  photo lithography,  chemical
vapor deposition of epitaxy, doping and oxidation processes,  plasma deposition,
ion  implantation,  metal plating,  sintering and sputtering,  chemical etching,
annealing  and  reaction.  Finished  wafers are then cut into very small dice in
order to be assembled  into the  appropriate  surface mount or leaded package at
the semiconductor assembly factory.

         Product Packaging

     Almost as important as the  technology  of the discrete  component,  is the
component  packaging.  The  industry  trend is to fit discrete  components  into
ever-smaller  and  more  efficient  surface-mount  packages.  Smaller  packaging
provides a reduction in board space,  height,  and weight and is well suited for
battery-powered,  hand-held and wireless  applications  such as cellular phones,
pagers, modems, notebook and palmtop computers and accessories where space is at
a premium.  The objective is to fit the same  functionality  and power  handling
features into smaller packages. The Company's packaging capabilities include:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                         <C>                                       <C>

Surface Mount:
SOT-23                                      SOT-523                                   SMA
SOT-25                                      SOD-523                                   SMB
SOT-26                                      SC-59                                     SMC
SOT-143                                     SC-75                                     DPAK
SOT-563                                     DO216AA                                   D2PAK
SOD-123                                                                               MELF
SOD-323                                                                               MiniMELF
SOT-363                                                                               Powermite3

Leaded:
DO-15                                       DO-201AD                                  A-405
DO-35                                       TO-220AC                                  TO-3P
DO-41                                       TO-220AB                                  Numerous Bridge Rectifier Packages
</TABLE>

                                       5
<PAGE>

Manufacturing and Significant Vendors

     The Company's Far East subsidiary,  Diodes-China,  manufactures product for
sale primarily to North America and Asia.  Diodes-China's  manufacturing focuses
on SOT-23  and  SOD-123  products,  as well as  sub-miniature  packages  such as
SOT-363,  SOT-563,  and SC-75.  These  surface-mount  devices  ("SMD")  are much
smaller  in size and are used in the  computer  and  communications  industries,
destined for cellular phones, notebook computers,  pagers, PCMCIA cards, modems,
and garage door  transmitters,  among  others.  Diodes-China's  state-of-the-art
facilities have been designed to develop even smaller,  higher-density  products
as  electronic  industry  trends to portable  and  hand-held  devices  continue.
Although  Diodes-China  purchases silicon wafers from FabTech,  the majority are
currently purchased from other wafer vendors.  The Company plans to increase the
number of  Diodes-FabTech  wafers  used at  Diodes-China  over the next  several
years.

     Acquired in December 2000 from LSC,  FabTech's  wafer foundry is located in
Lee's Summit,  Missouri.  FabTech manufactures  primarily 5-inch silicon wafers,
which are the  building  blocks for  semiconductors.  FabTech  has full  foundry
capabilities,  including  processes such as silicon epitaxy,  silicon oxidation,
photolithography and etching,  ion implantation and diffusion,  low pressure and
plasma  enhanced  chemical  vapor  deposition,  sputtered and  evaporated  metal
deposition, wafer backgrinding, and wafer probe and ink.

     FabTech  purchases  polished  silicon  wafers  and then,  by using  various
technologies  and  patents,  in  conjunction  with  many  chemicals  and  gases,
fabricates  several  layers on the  wafers,  including  epitaxial  silicon,  ion
implants,  dielectrics and metals,  with various patterns.  Depending upon these
layers and the die size (which is determined during the photolithography process
and  completed  at the  customer's  packaging  site where the wafer is sawn into
square or rectangular  die),  different  types of wafers with various  currents,
voltages and switching speeds are produced.

     At  Diodes-China,  silicon  wafers are received  and  inspected in a highly
controlled  environment  awaiting the assembly  operation.  At the first step of
assembly,  the wafers are  mounted in a  supporting  ring,  and using  automatic
machinery,  the wafers are sawn with very thin,  high speed diamond  blades into
tiny semiconductor  "dice",  numbering as many as 200,000 per 5" diameter wafer.
Dice are then loaded onto a handler, which automatically places the dice, one by
one, onto lead frames,  which are package specific,  where they are bonded using
various  technologies  to the lead frame pad. Next,  automatic wire bonders make
the  necessary  electrical  connections  from  the die to the  leads of the lead
frame,  using micro-thin gold wire. The fully automatic  assembly machinery then
molds the epoxy  case  around  the die and lead  frame to  produce  the  desired
semiconductor product. Next is the trim, form, test, mark and re-test operation.
Finally  the parts are placed into  special  carrier  housings  and a cover tape
seals the parts in place.  The taped parts are then spooled onto reels and boxed
for shipment.

     Each step of the process is precisely  controlled  and  monitored to assure
world-class quality.  Samples of each device type are periodically  subjected to
rigorous  1,000 hour high  reliability  testing to assure that the devices  will
meet all customers' expectations in the most demanding applications.

     As  evidence  of our total  commitment  to  product  quality  and  customer
satisfaction,  the Company's management has developed and continually  maintains
processes,  procedures and standards of performance that earn our Company widely
recognized quality certifications.  Our corporate headquarters received official
ISO 9002  Certification of Registration in 1997 from  Underwriters  Laboratories
(UL), the leading  third-party  certification  organization in the United States
and the  largest  in North  America.  Diodes-China  and  Diodes-Taiwan  received
official ISO 9002  Certification of Registration from DNV in 1997.  Diodes-China
also earned QS-9000 and ISO 14001 certifications in 2000,  validating high-level
quality  management in the automotive  supply industry,  and our compliance with
official environmental standards, respectively. Diodes-FabTech received ISO 9001
certification  in 1997, and QS 9000  certification  with AEC-A100  Supplement in
1998  from  BSI,  an   international   standards,   testing,   registration  and
certification organization.

     ISO  9000  certifications   consist  of  a  series  of  paradigms  for  the
establishment   of  systems  and  protocols  to  facilitate   the  creation  and
maintenance of superior quality-control  techniques. The Company's commitment to
ongoing external  validation  demonstrates  dedication to continual  reviews and
renewal of our mission,  strategies,  operations  and service  levels.  With its
underlying  premise that true product  quality  requires a total quality system,
ISO   certification   is  often   required  of  vendors   seeking  to  establish
relationships with OEMs doing business in intensely competitive global markets.

     All of the products sold by the Company,  as well as the materials  used by
the Company in its manufacturing operations, are available both domestically and
abroad.  In 2002, the largest  external  supplier of products to the Company was
LSC, a related party. Approximately 18% and 15% of the Company's sales were from
product  manufactured by LSC in 2002 and 2001,  respectively.  Also, in 2002 and
2001,  approximately  6% and 4%,  respectively  of the Company's sales were from
product  manufactured by companies owned by Xing International,  the 5% minority
partner in  Diodes-China,  and a related party.  In addition,  sales of products
manufactured by Diodes-China  and  Diodes-FabTech,  the Company's  manufacturing
subsidiaries,  were

                                       6
<PAGE>

approximately  34% and 25% in 2002,  respectively,  versus  27% and 15% in 2001,
respectively.   The  Company   anticipates  that  Diodes-China  will  become  an
increasingly valuable supplier. No other manufacturer of discrete semiconductors
accounted  for more  than 8% and 7% of the  Company's  sales  in 2002 and  2001,
respectively.

     The Company's  Diodes-China  manufacturing  facility  receives  wafers from
FabTech,  among others. Output from the FabTech facility includes wafers used in
the  production  of Schottky  barrier  diodes,  fast recovery  epitaxial  diodes
(FREDs), and other widely used value-added products. Schottky barrier diodes are
employed in the  manufacture of the power supplies found in personal  computers,
telecommunications  devices and other  applications  where high  frequency,  low
forward voltage and fast recovery are required.

     Until  October  2000,  Diodes-Taiwan   manufactured  product  for  sale  to
Diodes-North  America  and to trade  customers.  The  Company  moved its  Taiwan
manufacturing  to China  because  the Taiwan  manufactured  products  were lower
technology products,  fairly labor intensive, and the cost savings of moving the
manufacturing to the Company's  qualified  minority partner in Diodes-China were
attractive  and  necessary  to  meet  market  demand.  In  connection  with  the
manufacturing move, the Company sold approximately  $150,000 of equipment to the
minority  partner of  Diodes-China.  Diodes-Taiwan  continues  as the  Company's
Asia-Pacific sales, logistics and distribution center. Diodes-China participates
in  final  testing,   inspection  and  packaging  of  these  products,  formerly
manufactured by Diodes-Taiwan.

     Although the Company believes alternative sources exist for the products of
any of its suppliers, the loss of any one of its principal suppliers or the loss
of several  suppliers in a short period of time could have a materially  adverse
effect on the Company  until an  alternate  source is located and has  commenced
providing such products or raw materials.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

     The Company sells its products  through its own internal and regional sales
departments, as well as through representatives and distributors.  The Company's
sales  team,  aided by the sales force of  approximately  30  independent  sales
representatives  located  throughout  North  America,  Asia,  and most  recently
Europe,  supplies  approximately  200  OEM  accounts.  In  2002,  OEM  customers
accounted  for   approximately   69%  of  the  Company's   sales,   compared  to
approximately  66% in 2001.  The  increase was  primarily  due to wafer sales at
Diodes-FabTech.  OEM  customers  range from small,  privately  held  electronics
companies to Fortune 500 companies.

     The Company's major OEM customers  include  industry leaders such as: Intel
Corporation,  Cisco Systems  Incorporated,  Sony  Corporation,  Nortel  Networks
Corporation,   Delphi   Automotive,   Bose   Corporation,   Scientific   Atlanta
Incorporated,  Samsung  Electronics,  Asustek  Computer,  Inc.,  Quanta  and  LG
Electronics,  Inc. The Company further  supplies  approximately  40 distributors
(31% of 2002 sales), who collectively sell to approximately  10,000 customers on
the Company's  behalf.  The Company's  worldwide  distribution  network includes
Arrow Electronics,  Inc., Avnet, Inc., Digi-Key Corporation,  Future Electronics
Ltd.,  Jaco  Electronics,  Inc.,  Reptron  Electronics,  Inc.,  and All American
Semiconductor,  Inc.,  among  others.  The Company is not  dependent  on any one
customer to support its level of sales.  For the fiscal year ended  December 31,
2002, not one OEM customer  accounted for more than 14% of the Company's  sales,
while the largest  distributor  accounted  for 4% of sales.  The twenty  largest
customers  accounted,  in total, for approximately 61% of the Company's sales in
2002, compared to 55% in 2001.

     The Company's  products are sold primarily in North America,  the Far East,
and  Europe,  both  directly  to end  users  and  through  electronic  component
distributors.  In 2002, approximately 49%, 48%, and 3% of the Company's products
were sold in North America, the Far East, and Europe, respectively,  compared to
54%, 45%, and 1% in 2001,  respectively.  See Note 12 of "Notes to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements" for a description of the Company's geographic and segment
information.  An increase in the percentage of sales in the Far East is expected
as the Company  significantly  increased its sales  presence  there and believes
there is greater  potential  to increase  market share in that region due to the
expanding base of electronic product manufacturers.

     Through  Diodes-Taiwan,  the Company  employs a general manager who acts as
the Far East purchasing  liaison with respect to product  procurement from other
vendors located in the Far East.  Diodes-Taiwan  also sells product to customers
in Taiwan, Korea, and Singapore, among others Asia-Pacific countries.

     In June 2001,  the  Company  expanded  its sales  force into  Europe with a
regional  manager and  distribution  network to serve the UK,  France,  Germany,
Italy and Israel, among others.

     In March  2002,  the Company  opened a sales,  warehousing,  and  logistics
office in Hong Kong to  strengthen  its  competitive  market  position  in Asia.
Because more  communication and personal computer companies are moving to

                                       7
<PAGE>

China,  having sales and warehousing direct out of Hong Kong enables the Company
to provide  shorter  lead times on orders  and  better  service to this  growing
customer base.

     Through ongoing sales and customer service efforts,  the Company  continues
to develop business  relationships  with companies who are considered leaders in
their respective  market  segments.  The Company's  marketing  efforts also have
benefited  from  an  ongoing  program  to  develop   strategic   alliances  with
manufacturers, such as LSC, among others, to better control its destiny in terms
product  technology,  quality and especially the availability of the products it
sells.

     Over the years,  there has been a tendency among some larger  manufacturers
to limit or de-emphasize the production and marketing of discrete  components in
favor of integrated and hybrid circuits. With fewer service-oriented  sources of
discrete  components  available  to OEMs,  the Company has  captured  additional
market share. The Company's  products  primarily include catalog items, but also
include units designed to specific customer requirements.

Competition

     Numerous  semiconductor  manufacturers and distributors  serve the discrete
semiconductor components market where competition is intense. Some of the larger
companies include Fairchild Semiconductor  Corporation,  International Rectifier
Corporation,   Rohm   Electronics,   Phillips   Electronics,   On  Semiconductor
Corporation,  and  Vishay  Intertechnology,  Inc.,  many of which  have  greater
financial, marketing,  distribution,  brand name recognition and other resources
than the Company.  Accordingly,  in response to market  conditions,  the Company
from time to time may  reposition  product lines or decrease  prices,  which may
adversely   affect  the  Company's   profit   margins  on  such  product  lines.
Competitiveness  in sales of the  Company's  products is determined by the price
and quality of the product,  and the ability of the Company to provide  delivery
and customer service in keeping with the customers'  needs. The Company believes
that it is well equipped to be competitive in respect to these requirements.

Engineering and Research and Development

     The  Company's   engineering  and  research  and  development   consist  of
customer/applications  engineers and product development engineers who assist in
determining the direction of the Company's  future product lines.  Their primary
function is to work closely  with  market-leading  customers to further  refine,
expand and improve the  Company's  product  range within the  Company's  product
types and packages.  In addition,  customer  requirements  and acceptance of new
package  types are assessed and new,  higher  density and more  energy-efficient
packages are developed to satisfy  customers'  needs.  Working with customers to
integrate multiple types of technologies within the same package,  the Company's
applications  engineers  reduce the required  number of  components  and,  thus,
circuit board size requirements,  while increasing the component technology to a
higher level.

     Product  engineers  work directly with the  semiconductor  wafer design and
process  engineers at  Diodes-FabTech  who craft die designs needed for products
that precisely match our customer's requirements.  Further, Diodes-FabTech's R&D
engineers  are  developing  higher  technology  products,  which are expected to
propel the Company to leadership  positions in our focused areas. Direct contact
with the Company's manufacturing facilities allows the manufacturing of products
that are in line with  current  technical  requirements.  With the  addition  of
FabTech, the Company has the capability to capture the customer's electrical and
packaging requirements through its  customer/applications  engineers and product
development engineers,  and then transfer those requirements to Diodes-FabTech's
R&D and  engineering  department,  so that the  customer's  requirements  can be
translated,  designed, and manufactured with full control, even to the elemental
silicon level.

Patents

     Patents have begun to be more  significant to our business.  Developing and
maintaining a  competitive  advantage  requires  that the Company  pursue patent
protection for certain devices and processes, particularly those developed or in
development at Diodes-FabTech.  The Company currently holds five patents and has
seven patents pending in technologies  ranging from ruggedized  Schottky devices
to thirty-five  hundred volt  Ultra-Fast  devices.  To protect our  intellectual
property  from  being  copied by  competitors,  the  Company  will  continue  to
aggressively pursue patent protection.

Inventory

     In  general,  the  Company  maintains  sufficient  inventories  of standard
products at its U.S.  facility and Diodes-Taiwan and Diodes-Hong Kong facilities
to permit  rapid  delivery  of  customers'  orders.  In  addition,  the  Company
continuously  coordinates with strategic alliances and subcontractors to support
product  demand.  The Company  implemented

                                       8
<PAGE>

a program  in  coordination  with its  distributors,  enabling  the  Company  to
transfer  inventory  from  distributors  to OEM  customers to better  manage the
Company's on-hand inventory.

     The Company's inventory is composed of discrete  semiconductors and silicon
wafers,  which  are,  for the most  part,  standardized  in  electronic  related
industries. Historically, finished goods inventory turns over approximately four
times  annually.  Due to a concentrated  effort to reduce  inventory,  inventory
turns increased to approximately 5.5 times at December 31, 2002. The Company has
no  special  inventory  or  working  capital  requirements  that  are not in the
ordinary course of business.

Backlog

     The amount of backlog to be  shipped  during any period is  dependent  upon
various  factors and all orders are  subject to  cancellation  or  modification,
usually with minimal or no penalty to the customer.  Orders are generally booked
from one to twelve months in advance of delivery. The rate of booking new orders
can vary  significantly  from month to month.  The Company and the industry as a
whole are  experiencing a trend towards  shorter  lead-times (the amount of time
between the date a customer  places an order and the date the customer  requires
shipment).  The amount of  backlog at any date  depends  upon  various  factors,
including  the  timing  of the  receipt  of  orders,  fluctuations  in orders of
existing product lines, and the introduction of any new lines. Accordingly,  the
Company believes that the amount of backlog at any date is not meaningful and is
not necessarily  indicative of actual future  shipments.  The Company strives to
maintain  proper  inventory  levels to  support  customers'  just-in-time  order
expectations.

Employees

     As of December 31, 2002, the Company employed a total of 958 employees.  At
such date, Diodes-North America had 74 full-time employees, Diodes-Taiwan had an
additional  56  employees,  Diodes-China  had a  total  of  645  employees,  and
Diodes-FabTech had a total of 183 employees.  None of the Company's employees is
subject  to  a  collective  bargaining  agreement.  The  Company  considers  its
relations with its employees to be good.

Imports and Import Restrictions

     During  2002,  the  Company's   U.S.   operations,   which   accounted  for
approximately  49% of the Company's total sales,  imported  substantially all of
its products,  of which  approximately  17% was imported from Mainland China and
approximately  12% from  Taiwan.  The balance of the imports is  primarily  from
Germany,  Japan,  India,  the Philippines,  England and Korea. As a result,  the
Company's  operations  are  subject  to the  customary  risks of doing  business
abroad, including, but not limited to, the difficulty and expense of maintaining
foreign  sourcing  channels,  cultural  and  institutional  barriers  to  trade,
fluctuations in currency  exchange rates,  restrictions on the transfer of funds
and the imposition of tariffs,  political  instability,  transportation  delays,
expropriation,   import  and  export  controls  and  other  non-tariff  barriers
(including export licenses and changes in the allocation of quotas),  as well as
the uncertainty  regarding the future relationship between China and Taiwan, and
other U.S.  and foreign  regulations  that may apply to the export and import of
the Company's  products,  and which could have a material  adverse effect on the
Company.  Any  significant  disruption  in the  Company's  Taiwanese  or Chinese
sources of supply or in the Company's relationship with its suppliers located in
Taiwan or China could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

     The Company transacts  business with foreign suppliers  primarily in United
States  dollars.  To a  limited  extent,  and  from  time to time,  the  Company
contracts  (e.g.,  a portion of the  equipment  purchases  for the  Diodes-China
expansion) in foreign currencies,  and,  accordingly,  its results of operations
could be materially  affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Due to
the  limited  number of  contracts  denominated  in foreign  currencies  and the
complexities of currency hedges, the Company has not engaged in hedging to date.
If the volume of  contracts  written in foreign  currencies  increases,  and the
Company does not engage in currency hedging, any substantial change in the value
of such currencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results
of operations. Management believes that the current contracts written in foreign
currencies are not significant  enough to justify the costs inherent in currency
hedging.

     Imported  products are also subject to United States customs duties and, in
the ordinary course of business,  the Company,  from time to time, is subject to
claims by the United States Customs  Service for duties and other  charges.  The
Company  attempts to reduce the risk of doing business in foreign  countries by,
among other things, contracting in U.S. dollars, and, when possible, maintaining
multiple sourcing of product groups from several countries.

                                       9
<PAGE>

Related Parties

     The Company  conducts  business with two related party  companies,  LSC and
Xing  International.   LSC,  a  36.5%  shareholder,  is  the  Company's  largest
shareholder,  and Xing  International is owned by the Company's 5% joint venture
partner in Diodes-China.  C.H. Chen, the Company's President and Chief Executive
Officer, and a member of the Company's Board of Directors, is also Vice-Chairman
of LSC. M.K. Lu, a member of the Company's  Board of Directors,  is President of
LSC, while Raymond Soong,  the Company's  Chairman of the Board, is the Chairman
of the Lite-On Group, a significant shareholder of LSC.

     In 2002,  the Company  sold silicon  wafers to LSC totaling  13.7% (7.7% in
2001) of the Company's sales,  making LSC the Company's largest  customer.  Also
for  2002,  17.9%  (15.2% in 2001) of the  Company's  sales  were from  discrete
semiconductor  products  purchased  from LSC,  making LSC the Company's  largest
outside  vendor.  The  Company has a  long-standing  sales  agreement  where the
Company is the exclusive  North American  distributor for certain of LSC product
lines.  In  addition,  the  Company  leases  warehouse  space  from  LSC for its
operations in Hong Kong. All such transactions are on terms no less favorable to
the Company than could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties.

     In December 2000, the Company  acquired the wafer foundry,  FabTech,  Inc.,
from LSC. As part of the  purchase  price,  at December  31,  2002,  LSC holds a
subordinated, interest-bearing note for approximately $8.5 million. In May 2002,
the Company renegotiated the terms of the note to extend the payment period from
two years to four years, and therefore,  payments of approximately $208,000 plus
interest  began in July 2002. In connection  with the terms of the  acquisition,
LSC entered into a volume purchase agreement to purchase wafers from FabTech. In
addition,  as per the terms of the stock  purchase  agreement,  the  Company has
entered into several management  incentive  agreements with members of FabTech's
management.  The agreements provide members of FabTech's  management  guaranteed
annual payments as well as contingent bonuses based on the annual  profitability
of FabTech,  subject to a maximum annual  amount.  Any portion of the guaranteed
and contingent liability paid by FabTech is reimbursed by LSC.

     In 2002,  the  Company  sold  silicon  wafers  to  companies  owned by Xing
International  totaling  1.5% (0.6% in 2001) of the  Company's  sales.  Also for
2002,   5.6%  (4.4%  in  2001)  of  the  Company's   sales  were  from  discrete
semiconductor products purchased from companies owned by Xing International.  In
addition,  Diodes-China leases its manufacturing facilities from, subcontracts a
portion of its  manufacturing  process (metal plating) to, and pays a consulting
fee to Xing International.  All such transactions are on terms no less favorable
to the Company than could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties.

Reporting Segment

     For financial  reporting  purposes,  the Company is deemed to engage in one
industry  segment  -  discrete   semiconductors.   See  Note  12  of  "Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements" for a description of the Company's geographic
information.

Environmental Matters

     We are subject to a variety of United States  federal,  foreign,  state and
local  governmental  laws,  rules and regulations  related to the use,  storage,
handling,  discharge  or  disposal  of  certain  toxic,  volatile  or  otherwise
hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing  process. Any of these regulations
could require us to acquire  equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to
comply  with  environmental  regulations.   If  we  were  to  incur  substantial
additional expenses, product costs could significantly increase, thus materially
and  adversely  affecting  our  business,  financial  condition  and  results of
operations.  Any failure to comply with  present or future  environmental  laws,
rules and  regulations  could  result  in fines,  suspension  of  production  or
cessation of  operations,  any of which could have a material  adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

     The  Company  received  a  claim  from  one of its  former  U.S.  landlords
regarding  potential  groundwater  contamination  at a site in which the Company
engaged in manufacturing  from 1967 to 1973,  alleging that the Company may have
some  responsibility for cleanup costs. The Company does not anticipate that the
ultimate  outcome of this  matter will have a material  effect on its  financial
condition.

Available Information

     Our Internet address is  http://www.diodes.com.  We make available, free of
charge through our Internet website,  our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports  on Form  10-Q,  Current  Reports  on Form 8-K,  Proxy  Statements,  and
amendments  to those  reports  filed or furnished  pursuant to Section  13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably

                                       10
<PAGE>

practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the
Securities  and  Exchange   Commission   ("the  SEC").  To  support  our  global
customer-base,    particularly   in   Asia   and   Europe,    our   website   is
language-selectable into English,  Chinese,  Japanese, Korean and German, giving
us an effective marketing tool for world-wide markets. With its extensive online
Product  (Parametric)  Catalog with advanced  search  capabilities,  our website
facilitates quick and easy product  selection.  Our website provides easy access
to  world-wide  sales  contacts  and  customer   support,   and  incorporates  a
distributor-inventory  check to provide component  inventory  availability and a
small order desk for  overnight  sample  fulfillment.  Our website also provides
access to current and complete  investor  financial  information,  including SEC
filings and press releases, as well as stock quotes.


Cautionary  Statement for Purposes of the "Safe Harbor" Provision of the Private
Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995

     Except  for  the  historical  information  contained  herein,  the  matters
addressed  in this  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  constitute  "forward-looking
statements"  within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended,  and Section 21E of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  as amended.
Such  forward-looking   statements  are  subject  to  a  variety  of  risks  and
uncertainties,  including  those discussed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in
this  Annual  Report on Form 10-K that  could  cause  actual  results  to differ
materially  from those  anticipated  by the  Company's  management.  The Private
Securities  Litigation  Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act")  provides  certain  "safe
harbor"  provisions  for   forward-looking   statements.   All   forward-looking
statements made on this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made pursuant to the Act.

     All forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
are subject to, in addition to the other matters described in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K, a variety of significant  risks and  uncertainties.  The following
discussion highlights some of these risks and uncertainties.  Further, from time
to time, information provided by the Company or statements made by its employees
may contain forward-looking  information.  There can be no assurance that actual
results or business  conditions will not differ  materially from those set forth
or suggested in such forward-looking  statements as a result of various factors,
including those discussed below.

Risk Factors

     Vertical  Integration We are in the process of vertically  integrating  our
business.  Key elements of this strategy include (i) expanding our manufacturing
capacity,   (ii)  establishing   wafer  foundry  and  research  and  development
capability  through the  acquisition  of FabTech and (iii)  establishing  sales,
marketing,   product  development,   package  development  and  assembly/testing
operations in company-owned facilities or through the acquisition of established
contractors. We have a limited history upon which an evaluation of the prospects
of our  vertical  integration  strategy  can be based.  There are certain  risks
associated with our vertical integration strategy, including:

o        difficulties associated with owning a manufacturing business,
          including, but not limited to, the maintenance and management of
          manufacturing  facilities,  equipment,  employees  and  inventories
          and  limitations on the flexibility of controlling overhead;
o        difficulties implementing our Enterprise Resource Planning system;
o        difficulties expanding our operations in the Far East and developing
          new operations in Europe;
o        difficulties developing and implementing a successful research and
          development team;
o        difficulties developing proprietary technology; and,
o        market acceptance of our proprietary technology.

     The risks of becoming a fully  integrated  manufacturer are amplified in an
industry-wide  slowdown because of the fixed costs associated with manufacturing
facilities.

         Economic Conditions

     The discrete segment of the semiconductor  industry is highly cyclical, and
the value of our business may decline during the "down" portion of these cycles.
During  recent years,  we, as well as many others in our  industry,  experienced
significant  declines in the pricing of, as well as demand for, our products and
lower  facilities  utilization.  The  market  for  discrete  semiconductors  may
experience renewed, possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns in the future.
The markets for our products depend on continued  demand in the  communications,
computer,  industrial,  consumer  electronic and automotive  markets,  and these
end-markets  may experience  changes in demand that could  adversely  affect our
operating results and financial condition.

                                       11
<PAGE>

         Competition

     The  discrete  semiconductor  industry  is  highly  competitive.  We expect
intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants.  Competition
is based on price,  product  performance,  product  availability,  quality,  and
reliability and customer  service.  We compete in various markets with companies
of  various  sizes,  many of which are  larger  and have  greater  resources  or
capabilities  as it relates to financial,  marketing,  distribution,  brand name
recognition  and other  resources  than we have and, thus, may be better able to
pursue  acquisition  candidates  and to  withstand  adverse  economic  or market
conditions.  In addition,  companies not currently in direct competition with us
may  introduce  competing  products  in the future.  Some of our  current  major
competitors are Fairchild  Semiconductor  Corporation,  International  Rectifier
Corporation,   Rohm   Electronics,   Phillips   Electronics,   On  Semiconductor
Corporation,  and  Vishay  Intertechnology,  Inc.  We may not be able to compete
successfully  in the future,  or  competitive  pressures  may harm our financial
condition or our operating results.

         Foreign Operations

     We expect  revenues  from  foreign  markets  to  continue  to  represent  a
significant portion of our total revenues.  In addition,  we maintain facilities
or contracts with entities in the Philippines,  Taiwan, Germany, Japan, England,
India,  and China,  among  others.  There are risks  inherent in doing  business
internationally, including:

o        changes in, or impositions  of,  legislative or regulatory
          requirements,  including tax laws in the United States and in the
          countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;
o        trade restrictions, transportation delays, work stoppages, and economic
          and political instability;
o        changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates;
o        difficulties in collecting receivables and enforcing contracts;
o        currency exchange rate fluctuations;
o        restrictions on the transfer of funds from foreign subsidiaries to
          Diodes-North America; and,
o        longer customer payment terms.

         Variability of Quarterly Results

     We have  experienced,  and expect to continue to experience,  a substantial
variation in net sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe
that the factors that influence this variability of quarterly results include:

o       general economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products;
o       seasonality and variability in the computer and communications market
         and our other end markets;
o       the timing of our and our competitors' new product introductions;
o       product obsolescence;
o       the scheduling, rescheduling and cancellation of large orders by our
         customers;
o       the cyclical nature of demand for our customers' products;
o       our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume
         production at our fabrication facilities;
o       changes in manufacturing yields;
o       adverse movements in exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates; and
o       the availability of adequate supply commitments from our outside
         suppliers or subcontractors.

     Accordingly,  a comparison  of the  Company's  results of  operations  from
period to period is not  necessarily  meaningful  and the  Company's  results of
operations for any period are not necessarily indicative of future performance.

         New Technologies

     We  cannot   assure  that  we  will   successfully   identify  new  product
opportunities  and  develop  and  bring  products  to  market  in a  timely  and
cost-effective manner, or that products or technologies developed by others will
not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition,
to remain  competitive,  we must  continue  to  reduce  package  sizes,  improve
manufacturing  yields and expand  our  sales.  We may not be able to  accomplish
these goals.

         Production

     Our  manufacturing  efficiency  will be an  important  factor in our future
profitability,  and we cannot  assure  you that we will be able to  maintain  or
increase our  manufacturing  efficiency.  Our  manufacturing  processes  require
advanced and costly equipment and are continually being modified in an effort to
improve yields and product performance. We may experience manufacturing problems
in achieving  acceptable  yields or experience  product  delivery  delays in the
future as a result of, among other things,  capacity  constraints,  construction
delays,  upgrading  or  expanding  existing  facilities  or changing our process
technologies,  any of which  could  result  in a loss of  future  revenues.  Our
operating  results  also could be  adversely  affected by the  increase in fixed
costs and  operating  expenses  related to increases in  production  capacity if
revenues do not increase proportionately.

                                       12
<PAGE>

         Future Acquisitions

     As part of our business strategy, we expect to review acquisition prospects
that would  implement  our vertical  integration  strategy or offer other growth
opportunities.  While we have no current  agreements and no active  negotiations
underway with respect to any acquisitions,  we may acquire businesses,  products
or technologies in the future. In the event of future acquisitions, we could:

o        use a significant portion of our available cash;
o        issue equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders'
          percentage ownership;
o        incur substantial debt;
o        incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown;
o        incur amortization expenses related to intangibles; and
o        incur large, immediate accounting write-offs.

     Such  actions  by us could  harm our  operating  results  and/or  adversely
influence the price of our Common Stock.

         Integration of Acquisitions

     During  fiscal year 2000,  we  acquired  FabTech,  Inc. We may  continue to
expand and diversify our  operations  with  additional  acquisitions.  If we are
unsuccessful   in  integrating   these  companies  or  product  lines  with  our
operations,  or if  integration  is  more  difficult  than  anticipated,  we may
experience  disruptions  that  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on our
business,  financial condition and results of operations. Some of the risks that
may affect our ability to integrate  or realize any  anticipated  benefits  from
companies we acquire include those associated with:

o       unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company;
o       conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and
         controls with our operations;
o       coordinating our new product and process development;
o       hiring additional management and other critical personnel;
o       increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our
         operations;
o       difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and
         know-how;
o       diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and
o       adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers.

         Backlog

     The amount of backlog to be  shipped  during any period is  dependent  upon
various  factors and all orders are  subject to  cancellation  or  modification,
usually with minimal or no penalty to the customer.  Orders are generally booked
from one to twelve months in advance of delivery. The rate of booking new orders
can vary  significantly  from month to month.  The Company and the industry as a
whole are  experiencing a trend towards  shorter  lead-times (the amount of time
between the date a customer  places an order and the date the customer  requires
shipment).  The amount of  backlog at any date  depends  upon  various  factors,
including  the  timing  of the  receipt  of  orders,  fluctuations  in orders of
existing product lines, and the introduction of any new lines. Accordingly,  the
Company believes that the amount of backlog at any date is not meaningful and is
not necessarily  indicative of actual future  shipments.  The Company strives to
maintain  proper  inventory  levels to  support  customers'  just-in-time  order
expectations.

         Product Resources

     We  sell  products  primarily  pursuant  to  purchase  orders  for  current
delivery,  rather than  pursuant to long-term  supply  contracts.  Many of these
purchase orders may be revised or canceled without penalty. As a result, we must
commit  resources to the  production  of products  without any advance  purchase
commitments  from  customers.  Our  inability  to sell,  or delays  in  selling,
products  after we devote  significant  resources  to them could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

         Qualified Personnel

     Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain
highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. Personnel
with the necessary expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these
skills is intense.  We may not be able to retain existing key technical,  sales,
marketing and managerial employees or be successful in attracting,  assimilating
or retaining other highly qualified technical,  sales,  marketing and managerial
personnel in the future.  If we are unable to retain  existing key  employees or
are  unsuccessful in attracting new highly  qualified  employees,  our business,
financial  condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely
affected.

                                       13
<PAGE>

         Expansion

     Our  ability  to   successfully   offer  our   products  in  the   discrete
semiconductor market requires effective planning and management  processes.  Our
past growth,  and our targeted future growth,  may place a significant strain on
our  management  systems and  resources,  including our financial and managerial
controls,  reporting  systems  and  procedures.  In  addition,  we will  need to
continue to train and manage our workforce worldwide.

         Suppliers

     Our  manufacturing  operations  depend upon obtaining  adequate supplies of
materials, parts and equipment on a timely basis from third parties. Our results
of operations  could be adversely  affected if we are unable to obtain  adequate
supplies of materials, parts and equipment in a timely manner or if the costs of
materials, parts or equipment increase significantly. In addition, a significant
portion of our total sales is from parts  manufactured by outside vendors.  From
time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices
due to  capacity  constraints  or  other  factors.  Although  we  generally  use
products,  materials,  parts and equipment available from multiple suppliers, we
have a limited  number of  suppliers  for some  products,  materials,  parts and
equipment.  While we  believe  that  alternate  suppliers  for  these  products,
materials,  parts and equipment are available, any interruption could materially
impair our operations.

         Environmental Regulations

     We are subject to a variety of United States  Federal,  foreign,  state and
local  governmental  laws,  rules and regulations  related to the use,  storage,
handling,  discharge  or  disposal  of  certain  toxic,  volatile  or  otherwise
hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing  process. Any of these regulations
could require us to acquire  equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to
comply  with  environmental  regulations.   If  we  were  to  incur  substantial
additional expenses, product costs could significantly increase, thus materially
and  adversely  affecting  our  business,  financial  condition  and  results of
operations.  Any failure to comply with  present or future  environmental  laws,
rules and  regulations  could  result  in fines,  suspension  of  production  or
cessation of  operations,  any of which could have a material  adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

     The  Company  received  a claim  from  one of its  former  U.S.  landlords,
regarding  potential  groundwater  contamination  at a site in which the Company
engaged in manufacturing  from 1967 to 1973,  alleging that the Company may have
some  responsibility for cleanup costs. The Company does not anticipate that the
ultimate  outcome of this  matter will have a material  effect on its  financial
condition.

         Product Liability

     One or more of our  products  may be  found to be  defective  after we have
already  shipped such  products in volume,  requiring a product  replacement  or
recall.  We  may  also  be  subject  to  product  returns,  which  could  impose
substantial  costs and have a  material  and  adverse  effect  on our  business,
financial  condition and results of operations.  Product liability claims may be
asserted with respect to our technology or products.  Although we currently have
product  liability  insurance,  there can be no assurance  that we have obtained
sufficient  insurance coverage,  or that we will have sufficient  resources,  to
satisfy all possible product liability claims.

         System Outages

     Risks are presented by electrical or telecommunications  outages,  computer
hacking  or other  general  system  failure.  To try to  manage  our  operations
efficiently  and  effectively,  we rely heavily on our internal  information and
communications  systems and on systems or support  services from third  parties.
Any of these systems are subject to failure.  System-wide or local failures that
affect our  information  processing  could have material  adverse effects on our
business,  financial  condition,  results  of  operations  and  cash  flows.  In
addition, insurance coverage for the risks described above may be unavailable.

         Downward Price Trends

     Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing products tend
to decrease steadily over their life cycle.  There is substantial and continuing
pressure from  customers to reduce the total cost of using our parts.  To remain
competitive,  we must achieve  continuous  cost  reductions  through process and
product  improvements.  We must also be in a position to minimize our customers'
shipping  and  inventory  financing  costs  and to meet  their  other  goals for
rationalization  of supply and production.  Our growth and the profit margins of
our products will suffer if our  competitors  are more successful than we are in
reducing the total cost to customers of their products.

         Obsolete Inventories

     The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles
of the end products  into which our products are  designed.  Products with short
life cycles require us to manage  closely our  production and inventory  levels.
Inventory  may also become  obsolete  because of adverse  changes in  end-market
demand.  We may in the  future  be  adversely  affected  by  obsolete  or excess
inventories which may result from  unanticipated  changes in the estimated total
demand for our products or the  estimated  life cycles of the end products  into
which our products are designed.

                                       14
<PAGE>

         Deferred Taxes

     As  of  December  31,  2002,  accumulated  and  undistributed  earnings  of
Diodes-China is approximately $26.2 million. Through March 31, 2002, the Company
had not recorded deferred Federal or state tax liabilities (estimated to be $8.9
million)  on  these  cumulative  earnings  since  the  Company  considered  this
investment to be permanent,  and had no plans or obligation to distribute all or
part of that amount from China to the United  States.  Beginning  in April 2002,
under the  direction  of the Board of  Directors,  the  Company  began to record
deferred taxes on a portion of the earnings of Diodes-China.  As of December 31,
2002, the Company has recorded $850,000 in deferred taxes.

     The Company is evaluating the need to provide additional deferred taxes for
the  future  earnings  of  Diodes-China  to  the  extent  such  earnings  may be
appropriated for distribution to Diodes-North America, and as further investment
strategies  with respect to Diodes-China  are  determined.  Should the Company's
North American cash  requirements  exceed the cash that is provided  through the
domestic  credit  facilities,  cash can be obtained from the  Company's  foreign
subsidiaries.  However, the distribution of any unappropriated funds to the U.S.
will require the  recording of income tax  provisions on the U.S.  entity,  thus
reducing net income.

         Foreign Currency Risk

     The  Company  faces  exposure  to adverse  movements  in  foreign  currency
exchange  rates,  primarily  in Asia and,  to a lesser  extent,  in Europe.  The
Company's foreign currency risk may change over time as the level of activity in
foreign  markets  grows and could  have an  adverse  impact  upon the  Company's
financial  results.  Certain of the  Company's  assets,  including  certain bank
accounts and  accounts  receivable,  and  liabilities  exist in non-U.S.  dollar
denominated  currencies,  which  are  sensitive  to  foreign  currency  exchange
fluctuations.  These  currencies are principally the Chinese Yuan, the Taiwanese
dollar,  the Japanese Yen, and the Hong Kong dollar.  Because of the  relatively
small size of each  individual  currency  exposure,  the Company does not employ
hedging techniques designed to mitigate foreign currency  exposures.  Therefore,
the Company could experience currency gains and losses.

         Interest Rate Risk

     The  Company  has  credit  agreements  with  U.S.  and Far  East  financial
institutions  at  interest  rates  equal  to  LIBOR or  similar  indices  plus a
negotiated  margin.  A rise in interest  rates could have an adverse impact upon
the  Company's  cost of working  capital and its interest  expense.  The Company
entered  into  an  interest  rate  swap  agreement  to  hedge  its  exposure  to
variability  in expected  future cash flows  resulting  from  interest rate risk
related to a portion of its long-term  debt. At December 31, 2002,  the interest
rate swap agreement applies to $4.8 million of the Company's  long-term debt and
expires  November 30, 2004.  The swap  contract is inversely  correlated  to the
related hedged long-term debt and is therefore considered an effective cash flow
hedge of the underlying  long-term debt. The level of effectiveness of the hedge
is  measured  by the changes in the market  value of the hedged  long-term  debt
resulting from fluctuation in interest rates. As a matter of policy, the Company
does not enter into derivative transactions for trading or speculative purposes.

         Political Risk

     The Company  has a  significant  portion of its assets in  Mainland  China,
Taiwan and Hong Kong.  The  possibility  of  political  conflict  between  these
countries  or with the  United  States  could have an  adverse  impact  upon the
Company's ability to transact business through these important business segments
and to generate profits.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

     With  respect  to foreign  operations,  see Notes 1, 11 and 12 of "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements."
