ITEM 1:  BUSINESS

Introduction

     eMagin  Corporation  designs,  develops,  and markets OLED  (organic  light
emitting  diode)-on-silicon  microdisplays  and related  information  technology
solutions.   We  integrate  OLED   technology  with  silicon  chips  to  produce
high-resolution  microdisplays  smaller than  one-inch  diagonally  which,  when
viewed  through a magnifier,  create a virtual image that appears  comparable to
that of a computer  monitor or a large-screen  television.  Our first commercial
product,  the SVGA+ (Super Video  Graphics  Array plus 52 added columns of data)
OLED  microdisplay was first offered for sampling in 2001, and our first SVGA-3D
(Super Video Graphics Array plus built-in stereovision  capability) microdisplay
was first  shipped in  February  2002.  We are now  accepting  orders for larger
quantities of our first microdisplay  product and shipping samples of our second
commercial  microdisplay product. These products are being applied or considered
for near-eye and headset  applications  in products  such as  entertainment  and
gaming   headsets,   handheld   Internet   and   telecommunication   appliances,
viewfinders,  and wearable  computers to be manufactured  by original  equipment
manufacturer (OEM) customers.

     Our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays offer a number of advantages over current
liquid  crystal  microdisplays,  including  increased  brightness,  lower  power
requirements,  less weight and wider viewing angles.  Using our OLED technology,
many computer and video  electronic  system functions can be built directly into
the  OLED-on-silicon  microdisplay,  resulting in compact  systems with expected
lower overall system costs relative to alternate microdisplay  technologies.  We
license fundamental OLED technology from Eastman Kodak and we have developed our
own  technology to create high  performance  OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays  and
related optical systems. Stanford Resources-iSuppli, an industry market research
organization,  has recently  identified  the  emergence of OLED  technology as a
major advance,  with OLED revenue  expected to rise to more than $1.6 billion in
2007 from $200 million this year.

As the first to exploit OLED technology for microdisplays, and with our partners
and intellectual  property,  we believe that we enjoy a significant advantage in
the  commercialization  of this display  technology.  We are the only company to
announce, publicly show and sell full-color OLED-on-silicon microdisplays.

Industry Overview

     The overall  flat panel  display  industry is predicted to grow to over $69
billion in 2005, according to market research by DisplaySearch.  Within the flat
panel industry there are various sizes and  applications of flat panel displays,
ranging from wall size signage to calculator and viewfinder  displays.  Displays
are sold as  independent  products  (such as flat TVs) or as components of other
systems (such as laptop computers).  Our products target one segment of the flat
panel industry - near-eye microdisplays.

     Near-eye  microdisplays are used in small optically  magnified devices such
as  video  headsets,   camcorders,   viewfinders  and  other  portable  devices.
Microdisplays  are  typically  of  such

                                       5
<PAGE>
high resolution that they are only  practically  viewed with magnifying  optics.
Although the displays are  typically  physically  smaller than a postage  stamp,
they can  provide  a  magnified  viewing  area  similar  to that of a full  size
computer screen.  For example,  when magnified through a lens, a high-resolution
0.5-inch to 0.75-inch  diagonal display can appear comparable to a 19 to 21-inch
diagonal  computer screen at about 2 feet from the viewer or a 60-inch TV screen
at about 6 feet.  One  version of our optics  recreates  the  viewing  and sound
experience of sitting in the middle seat of a typical movie theater.

     Stanford  Resources-iSuppli,  a market  intelligence  firm  focusing on the
global  electronic  display  industry,  forecasts  that  the  world  market  for
microdisplays  as components will grow from $669 million in 2001 to $1.9 billion
in 2007, for a compounded  annual growth rate of 19%.  Another leading  industry
market  research  organization,  DisplaySearch,  projects that the  microdisplay
market is expected to grow to $3.1 billion by 2005.

     We believe that the most significant  driver of the microdisplay  market is
growing  consumer  demand for mobile access to larger volumes of information and
entertainment in smaller packages.  This desire for mobility has resulted in the
development   of   microdisplay   products  in  two   categories:   (i) near-eye
microdisplays  incorporated  in products such as viewfinders,  digital  cameras,
video cameras and personal viewers for cell phones and  (ii) headset-application
platforms  which  include  mobile  devices  such as  notebook  and  sub-notebook
computers,   wearable   computers,   portable  DVD  systems,   games  and  other
entertainment.

     Until now, microdisplay technologies have not simultaneously met all of the
requirements for high resolution, full color, low power consumption, brightness,
lifetime,  size and cost which are required for successful  commercialization in
OEM  consumer  products.  We believe that our new  OLED-on-silicon  microdisplay
product line meets these  requirements  better than alternate  products and will
help to  enable  virtual  imaging  to emerge as an  important  display  industry
segment.

Our Approach: OLED-on-Silicon Microdisplays and Optics

Our microdisplays are based upon organic light emitting diode  (OLED)-on-silicon
technology.   Our  OLED-on-silicon   technology  uniquely  permits  millions  of
individual  low-voltage light sources to be built on low-cost,  silicon computer
chips  to  produce  single  color,   white,   or  full-color   display   arrays.
OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays  offer a number of advantages over current liquid
crystal microdisplays, including increased brightness, lower power requirements,
less weight and wider viewing angles.  Using our OLED technology,  many computer
and video  electronic  system  functions can be built  directly into the silicon
chip, under the OLED film,  resulting in very compact,  integrated  systems with
lowered  overall  system  costs  relative  to  alternate  technologies.

We have  developed our own  proprietary  technology  to create high  performance
OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays  and  related  optical  systems  and  we  license
fundamental OLED technology from Eastman Kodak. (See "Intellectual Property" and
"Strategic Relationships") We expect that the integration of our OLED-on-silicon
microdisplays into mobile electronic products

                                       6
<PAGE>

will result in lower overall system costs to our original equipment manufacturer
(OEM) customers.

We believe that our OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays represent a new generation of
microdisplay technology. Because our microdisplays generate and emit light, they
have a wider viewing angle than  competing  liquid  crystal  microdisplays,  and
because they have the same high brightness at all forward  viewing  angles,  our
microdisplays permit a large field-of-view and superior optical image. The wider
viewing  angle  of  our  display  results  in  the  following  superior  optical
characteristics:

o        the user does not need to as accurately position the head-wearable
         display to the eye;

o        the image will change minimally with eye movement and appear more
         natural; and

o        the display can be placed further from the eye.

     In addition, our OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays offer faster response times
and use less power than  competitive  liquid crystal  microdisplay  systems.  We
expect that our integrated electronics and unique OLED characteristics,  coupled
with our lenses, will result in lower overall system costs for OEMs.

     Our OLED microdisplay stores, until refreshed,  all the color and luminance
value information at each of the more than 1.5 million picture elements (pixels)
in the display  array,  eliminating  the flicker or color  breakup  seen by most
other high-resolution microdisplay technologies. Power consumption at the system
level is expected to be the lowest of any full-color, full-video SVGA resolution
range,  large view microdisplay on the market.  The OLED's ability to emit light
at wide  angles  allows  customers  to create  large field of view  (approx.  40
degrees), wide image capture range images from very compact, low-cost, one-piece
optical systems.  The display contains the majority of the electronics  required
for connection to the RGB (red,  green, blue signal) port of a portable computer
imbedded  in  its  silicon  chip  backplane,   thereby  eliminating  many  other
components  required  by  other  display  technologies  such as D-A  converters,
application-specific   integrated  circuits  (ASICs),  light  sources,  multiple
optical elements,  and other  components.  We believe that these features enable
our new class of microdisplay to potentially be the most compact,  highest image
quality,  and lowest cost solution for high  resolution  near-eye  applications,
once in full production.

     We have  completed  the  development  of our  first  two  customer-oriented
products, our SVGA+ resolution  microdisplay (1.53 million picture elements) and
our  stereovision-capable  SVGA-3D microdisplay (1.44 million picture elements).
We are  currently  far along in  developing a military and  industrial  oriented
ultra-high-luminance SXGA integrated circuit (3.9 million picture elements) that
is due for completion in 2002. We plan to sell our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays
for use as  components  by  customers  who prefer to design and build  their own
lenses.  We also plan to offer  OLED  processing  on our  customers'  integrated
circuits to some OEMs who design their own integrated circuits.  We also provide
Developer  Kits  which  include  a  color  SVGA+  resolution   microdisplay  and
associated  electronics  required for OEMs to build and test new products.  This
developer  kit provides  OEMs with the first  opportunity  for  evaluation of an
OLED-on-silicon microdisplay.


                                       7
<PAGE>

Our Products

     We offer our products to Original Equipment  Manufacturers  (OEM) and other
large volume  buyers as both separate  components  and  integrated  bundles in a
three-tiered platform:

     (1)  OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays  for integration  into OEM products for
     consumer, industrial, and military markets;

     (2)   MicroviewerTM    modules   that   incorporate   our   OLED-on-silicon
     microdisplays with compact lenses and electronic interfaces for integration
     into OEM products for consumer, industrial, and military markets; and

     (3) Head-wearable  display systems that will incorporate our MicroviewersTM
     for consumer and industrial markets.

     We also plan to offer engineering  support,  enabling  customers to quickly
integrate our products into their own product development programs.

     (1) OLED Microdisplay Products

     We serve as a  component  manufacturer  by  supplying  our  OLED-on-silicon
microdisplays  for  those  customers  who have  their own  lenses or  integrated
circuits. Our first commercial microdisplay products include:

     0.62-inch  Diagonal SVGA+ (Super Video Graphics Array plus 52 added columns
of data) for  Consumer  OEMs.  This  display has a  resolution  of 852 x 3 x 600
pixels,  and was dubbed  "SVGA+"  because it has 52 more display  columns than a
standard SVGA display.  The design permits users to run either (1) standard SVGA
(800 x 600 pixels) to interface to the analog output of many portable  computers
or (2) 852 x 480,  using all the data available from a DVD player in a 16:9 wide
screen entertainment format. The SVGA+ can be made as a full-color or monochrome
microdisplay primarily for high-performance and large-view consumer OEM products
such as games, video/data head-wearable displays, digital cameras, video cameras
and other portable  electronics  applications.  The display also has an internal
NTSC monochrome  video decoder for low power night vision systems.  This product
is designed to interface with most portable personal computers.

     0.59-inch  Diagonal  SVGA-3D  (Super  Video  Graphics  Array plus  built-in
stereovision capability) for Consumer OEMs. This display has a resolution of 800
x 3 x 600  pixels.  The  SVGA-3D  can be  made  as a  full-color  or  monochrome
microdisplay primarily for high-performance and large-view consumer OEM products
such as personal computer games and video/data  head-wearable  displays,  but is
also  designed to be  applicable  for digital  cameras,  video cameras and other
portable  electronics  applications since the 3D feature is optional. A built-in
circuit provides compatibility with single channel frame sequential stereoscopic
vision without additional external  components.  In high volumes, the SVGA-3D is
priced  lower than the SVGA+,  so it is likely to be selected  whenever  the OEM
customer does not need monochrome NTSC or the extra columns of resolution.


                                       8
<PAGE>

     0.98-inch   Diagonal  SXGA  (Super   Extended  Video  Graphics  Array)  for
Industrial, Medical and Military Applications. We are developing an introductory
SXGA microdisplay product as a personal  computer-compatible headset display for
military,  medical,  high-end  commercial,  and  industrial  applications.  This
product will have 1280 x 1024  monochrome  pixels and will be adaptable to color
VGA resolution.  The display will have a capability for very high luminance.  We
expect that this display will be able provide over 30,000 Cd/m2  luminance.  For
reference, a typical notebook computer operates at 80 Cd/m2 peak luminance. This
digital  video and data  interface  product is being  designed to exhibit a wide
dimming  range  and  high  luminance  for  special  military  applications.   We
anticipate that the performance features of the SXGA, such as high-speed digital
video and 256 gray  levels,  have the  potential  to serve as a catalyst for the
development of new applications.

         (2) MicroviewerTM Products Incorporating Lenses

     By providing an  integrated  solution of a complete  microdisplay  and lens
assembly to integrate into OEM customers' end product design,  OEM customers can
avoid incurring  expensive  optics design and tooling costs.  Different lens and
microdisplay  specifications  can be mixed and matched to be adapted to many end
products.

     We have developed  advanced lens  technology for several  applications  and
hold key patents on low cost, high  performance lens technology for microdisplay
applications.  Our lens technology permits our OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays to
provide large field of view images that can be viewed for extended  periods with
reduced eye-fatigue.

     We intend to sell MicroviewerTM  modules to OEMs for integration with their
branded products, or incorporated into eGlassTM Personal ViewerTM  head-wearable
displays to be supplied by our  subsidiary,  Virtual  Vision,  Inc.  Some of our
potential   customers   have  stated  a  preference  for   MicroviewersTM   over
microdisplays since MicroviewersTM  incorporate lenses which save OEMs a step in
their manufacturing  process and can save them the long time required to develop
a high performance lens system.

          (3) eGlassTM Personal ViewerTM Head-Wearable Systems

     Personal  ViewerTM  head-wearable  systems,  such as our eGlassTM  Personal
ViewerTM,  give users the ability to work with their hands while  simultaneously
viewing  information or video on the display.  Our head-wearable  displays are a
versatile  computer  enabler,  capable  of  delivering  an  image  that  appears
comparable to that of a 19-inch  monitor at 22 to 24 inches from the eye using a
0.59-inch  diagonal  microdisplay  (SVGA-3D).  We believe that  Personal  Viewer
head-wearable  displays  will  fill  the  increasing  demand  for  instant  data
accessibility in mobile workplaces. We expect to sell the head-wearable displays
primarily to OEM systems and equipment  customers  through  direct sales and our
e-commerce website which is under development.

     We believe  that our  strategy of offering  our  products  both as separate
components and as integrated bundles that include  microdisplays and lenses will
allow us to address the needs of the largest number of potential customers.


                                       9
<PAGE>

Recent Product and Technology Awards

o Dual Use Technology Achievement Award

     March 2002. eMagin and the US Air Force Armstrong Laboratory received first
place  for the US Air  Force  and was  recognized  as one of the  best  dual use
technologies in 2001  recognition  across all branches of the Armed Services for
the Second Annual Dual Use Science and Technology  Achievement  Award awarded by
the Deputy Under Secretary for Defense, Charles J. Holland. The award recognizes
the best dual use programs  and honors  those  responsible  for  developing  and
implementing technology beneficial to both military and commercial sectors.

o 2001 Product of the Year

     January 17, 2001.  eMagin  received a 2001  Product-of-the-Year  Award from
Electronic  Products  Magazine,  honoring  eMagin  for  the  development  of its
first-of-class high-resolution active matrix OLED-on-silicon microdisplay, based
on significant advances in technology.

o 2001 U.S. Army Phase II Quality Award

     August  21,  2001.  eMagin  received  a 2001 US Army SBIR  (Small  Business
Innovation   Research)   Phase  II  Quality   Award  for  the   development   of
high-resolution active matrix OLED microdisplays for incorporation into military
head-mounted  displays. The annual Quality Awards Program recognizes top quality
Army Phase II projects for their technical achievement, contribution to the Army
and potential for commercial use. Selected by a distinguished  panel of Army and
industry  experts,  eMagin's  project was among only five  selected to receive a
2001 U.S. Army SBIR Phase II Quality Award through the rigorous  Quality  Awards
competition.

o Display of the Year 2000 Gold Award

     June 6, 2001.  eMagin was honored by The Information  Display  Magazine and
Society  Information  Display  with the  Display  of the Year Gold Award for its
OLED-on-Silicon  microdisplay.  The Display of the Year Award was established in
1995 to recognize outstanding products chosen for their innovation and potential
impact on current and future  display  markets.  An  international  committee of
distinguished  display technologists and leading editors in a four-month process
of nominations and voting made the selection.

Our Market Opportunity

     The growth  potential  of our selected  target  market  segments  have been
investigated using information gathered from key industry market research firms,
including Display Search, Frost and Sullivan,  Fuji-Chimera,  International Data
Corporation,  Nikkei, SEMI, Stanford Resources-iSuppli and others. Such data was
obtained using published reports and data obtained at industry symposia. We have
also relied substantially on market projections obtained privately from industry
leaders, industry analysts, and potential customers.

     We  believe  that  the  consumer   oriented,   virtual-imaging   market  is
characterized  by about 20 large OEMs that,  collectively,  dominate  90% of the
market.  The  non-consumer  market  consists  of niches -  industrial,  medical,

                                       10
<PAGE>

military, arcade games, 3-D CAD/Virtual Reality, and wearable computers.  Within
each of these market sectors,  we believe that our microdisplays,  when combined
with compact  optic  lenses,  will become a key component for a number of mobile
electronic products. We are targeting the following applications:

(1) Near-Eye Viewers for Digital Cameras, Camcorders and Hand-held Internet  and
Telecommunications Appliances

     We believe that our microdisplays will enhance near-eye applications in the
following groups of products:

     -- Digital cameras and camcorders, which typically use direct view displays
at low resolution, offer a small visual image, and are difficult to see on sunny
days.  According to Display  Search,  41 million  digital cameras and 13 million
camcorders  are  expected  to be  sold  in  2005.  Some of  these  products  may
incorporate  microdisplays  as  high-resolution  viewfinders  which would permit
individuals to see enlarged,  high-resolution proofs immediately upon taking the
picture, giving them the opportunity to retake a poor shot.

     --  Mobile  phones  and other  hand-held  Internet  and  telecommunications
appliances which will enable users to access full web and fax pages,  data lists
and  maps in a  pocket-sized  device.  According  to the Fuji  Chimera  Research
Institute, an industry market research organization,  by 2005 the cellular phone
and handheld  portable digital  assistant markets will grow to 655 million units
and 20  million  units,  respectively.  Some of these  products  may  eventually
incorporate  our  microdisplays.  In  order  for  the  high-resolution  wireless
telecommunications  market  to  develop,  Generation  3  (G3)  high  speed  data
transmission must become widely available.

     For each of  these  applications,  we  anticipate  that our  microdisplays,
combined with compact optic lenses,  will offer higher  resolution,  lower power
and system cost and achieve  larger images than are  currently  available in the
consumer market.  As a result, we believe that we can obtain a sizeable share of
the market for the display components of these mobile electronic products.

(2) Head-wearable Display Platforms

     Head-wearable   displays  incorporate   microdisplays   mounted  in  or  on
eyeglasses,  goggles,  simple  headbands,  helmets,  or hardhats,  and are often
referred  to  as  HMDs  or  headsets.   Head-wearable  displays  may  block  out
surroundings for a fully immersive  experience,  or be designed as "see-through"
or "see-around" to the user's surroundings.  They may contain one (monocular) or
two  (binocular)  displays.  Some of the  increased  current  interest is due to
accelerating the timetable to adapt such systems to military  applications  such
as night vision and fire and rescue applications.

     Military

     Military  demand for  head-wearable  displays is  currently  being met with
microdisplay  technologies that we believe to be inferior to our OLED-on-silicon
products.  The new generation of soldiers will be highly mobile,  and will often
need to carry highly computerized  communications and surveillance equipment. To


                                       11
<PAGE>

enable  interaction with the digital  battlespace,  rugged,  yet lightweight and
energy  efficient  technology  is  required.  Currently  available  microdisplay
technologies do not meet the  requirements  for low power,  hands-free,  day and
night-viewable   displays.  Our  OLED  microdisplays   demonstrate   performance
characteristics  important  to  military  and  other  demanding  commercial  and
industrial  applications including high brightness and resolution,  wide dimming
range, wider temperature  operating ranges,  shock and vibration  resistance and
insensitivity to high G-forces.  The image does not suffer from flicker or color
breakup in vibrating  environments,  and the  microdisplay's  wide viewing angle
allows  ease of  viewing  for long  periods of time.  The OLED's  very low power
consumption  reduces  battery  weight  and  increases  allowed  mission  length.
Properly  implemented,  we believe that head-mounted  systems  incorporating our
microdisplays will increase  effectiveness by allowing hands-free  operation and
increasing  situational awareness with enough brightness to be used in daylight,
yet controllable for nighttime light security. The OLED's wide temperature range
is especially of interest for military applications because the display can turn
on instantly  at  temperatures  far below  freezing and can operate at very high
temperatures in desert conditions.

     Our OLED  microdisplays  were  selected for several  aircraft  vehicles and
soldier applications,  including the US Army Land Warrior program and the US Air
Force Joint Strike Fighter.  Land Warrior, a core program in the Army's drive to
digitize the  battlefield,  is an integrated  digital  system that  incorporates
computerized communication, navigation, targeting and protection systems for use
by the twenty-first century infantry soldier. Kaiser Electro-Optics,  a Rockwell
Collins company and the principal  contractor for the US Army's Land Warrior HMD
system,  and eMagin will apply  their  respective  expertise  in HMD and imaging
technology to develop  rugged,  yet lightweight  and energy  efficient  products
meeting the requirements of tomorrow's soldier. The US Army expects to initially
equip more than 40,000 soldiers with the Land Warrior  system.  The US Air Force
has selected our OLED microdisplay  technology for incorporation into the Strike
Helmet 21 system that uses Integrated  Panoramic Night Vision Goggles (IPNVG) in
avionics  helmets.  The Strike Helmet 21 system is targeted for integration into
F-15E aircraft in the 2003-2004 time period. Similar systems are of interest for
other military  applications as well as for related  operations such as fire and
rescue.

     Commercial and Industrial

     We believe that a wide variety of commercial and  industrial  markets offer
significant   opportunities   due  to   increasing   demand  for  instant   data
accessibility in mobile workplaces.  Some examples of microdisplay  applications
include:   immediate   access  to   inventory   (parts,   tools  and   equipment
availability);  instant  accessibility  to maintenance or construction  manuals;
routine quality assurance  inspection;  and real-time viewing of images and data
during microsurgery or endoscopy.

     Consumer

     We  believe  that our  head-wearable  display  products  will  enhance  the
following consumer products:

     -- Entertainment and gaming video headset systems, which permit individuals
to view television  (including HDTV), video CDs, DVDs and video games on virtual



                                       12
<PAGE>

large screens or stereovision in private without disturbing others.  Even though
entertainment  and gaming headsets  represent an emerging  product class, we are
seeing demand from OEMs.  Headset game systems for portable  computers with head
tracking and/or  stereovision  appears to be our predominate  high quantity near
term market opportunity,  with several customers indicating an interest in large
production quantities of our displays.  Our current SVGA-3D display was designed
specifically for this market. We believe that these new headset game systems can
provide  a  game  or  telepresence  experience  not  otherwise  practical  using
conventional direct view display technology.  We expect low cost to be important
for  success in this  field,  and expect our  product  cost to  decrease in high
quantity production.

     -- Notebook computers,  which can use head-wearable devices to reduce power
as well as  expand  the  apparent  screen  size and  increase  privacy.  Current
notebook computers do not use microdisplays.  Our products can apply not only to
new models of notebook computers,  but also as aftermarket  attachments to older
notebooks  still in use.  We expect to market our  head-wearable  displays to be
used as plug-in  peripherals to be compatible with most notebook  computers.  We
believe  that the  SVGA-3D  microdisplay  is  well-suited  for most  portable PC
headsets.  Our  microdisplays can be operated using the USB power source of most
portable  computers.  To our  knowledge,  it is the  only  microdisplay  that is
capable of doing this without potentially damaging the PC. This eliminates added
power  supplies,  batteries,  and rechargers  and reduces system  complexity and
cost.

     -- Handheld personal computers,  whose small, direct view screens are often
limitations,  but which are now capable of running  software  applications  that
would benefit from a larger  display.  Microdisplays  can be built into handheld
computers  to  display  more  information  content on  virtual  screens  without
forfeiting  portability  or  adding  the  cost  a  larger  direct  view  screen.
Microdisplays are not currently used in this market. We believe that GPS viewers
and other  novel  products  are likely to develop as our  displays  become  more
available.

     -- Highly compact wearable computers and personal digital assistants (PDAs)
using  video  headsets  as  screens  can be  made  possible  by  high-resolution
microdisplays.   A  lightweight  (under  one  pound)  pocketsize   computer  can
potentially be created with a fold-out keyboard,  compact input device, or voice
actuation  and  a  headset  that  provides  a  near-desktop   personal  computer
experience.

     The combination of power  efficiency,  high  resolution,  low systems cost,
brightness and compact size offered by our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays has not
been made  available to makers and  integrators  of existing  entertainment  and
gaming video headset  systems,  notebook  computers and handheld  computers.  We
believe  that our  microdisplays  will  catalyze  the growth of new products and
applications such as lightweight wearable computer systems.


                                       13
<PAGE>

                     Selected Applications by Market Sector

------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
    Sector                      Representative Applications
------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
Portable Computer Peripheral    o   Notebook and SuperSubnotebook computer
                                    headsets
                                o   Miniature data viewers
------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
Entertainment                   o   Games
                                o   Headset Television/DVDs
------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
Industrial, Medical, &          o   Surgery and Dentistry
Administration                  o   Industrial Control and Safety
                                o   Emergency Services
                                o   Inventory and Retail
                                o   Institutional Control
                                o   Maintenance (Industry & Consumer)
                                o   Communications
                                o   Finance
                                o   Education and Training
------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
Military                        o    Communications
                                o    Targeting and Enhanced Vision
                                o    Handheld & Headmount Equipment
                                o    Body worn displays
                                o    Avionics (Helmet mount)
                                o    Ground and Water Vehicles
                                o    Maintenance & Training
                                o    Special Applications
------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
Telecommunications, Handheld,   o    Cell Phones/Headset phones
and Small Instruments           o    Handheld & Portable Internet Viewers
                                o    Smart Appliances & Instruments
------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
Advanced Computer               o    CAD/CAM
Applications                    o    Virtual Reality and Simulations
                                o    Ultra-High Resolution
------------------------------  ------------------------------------------------

Our Strategy

     Our  strategy  is to  establish  and  maintain a  leadership  position as a
worldwide supplier of microdisplays and virtual imaging technology solutions for
applications in high growth segments of the electronics industry by capitalizing
on our  leadership in both  OLED-on-silicon  technology  and  microdisplay  lens
technology. We intend to:

     Leverage our superior technology to establish a leading market position. As
the first to exploit OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays,  we believe that we enjoy a
significant advantage in bringing this technology to market.

     Develop  products for large  consumer  markets via key  relationships  with
OEMs. Our relationships  with OEMs whose products use microdisplays have allowed


                                       14
<PAGE>

us to identify initial  microdisplay  products to be produced for entertainment,
industrial,  and  military  headsets,  followed  by other  applications  such as
digital  cameras,  camcorders  and  hand-held  Internet  and  telecommunications
appliances.

     Optimize   manufacturing   efficiencies  by  outsourcing  while  protecting
proprietary processes. We intend to outsource certain capital-intensive portions
of microdisplay production, such as chip fabrication, to minimize both our costs
and time to market.  We intend to ret ain the OLED  application and OLED sealing
processes  in-house.  We  believe  that  these  areas  are  where we have a core
competency and  manufacturing  expertise.  We also believe that by keeping these
processes under tight control we can better protect our  proprietary  technology
and process know-how. This strategy will also enhance our ability to continue to
optimize  and  customize  processes  and  devices  to meet  customer  needs.  By
performing the processes  in-house we can continue to directly make improvements
in the  processes  which will  improve  device  performance.  We also retain the
ability to customize  certain  aspects  such as  chromaticity  (color  balance),
specialized boards or interfaces,  and adjust other parameters at the customer's
request. In the area of lenses and head-wearable displays, we intend to focus on
design and development, while working with third parties for the manufacture and
distribution of finished  products.  We intend to prototype new optical systems,
provide customization of optical systems, and manufacture limited volumes at our
subsidiary,  Virtual Vision,  but intend to outsource high volume  manufacturing
operations.

     Build and maintain strong internal design  capabilities.  As more circuitry
is added to  OLED-on-silicon  devices,  the cost of the end  product  using  the
display can be decreased;  therefore  integrated  circuit design capability will
become increasingly  important to us. To meet these  requirements,  we intend to
develop  in-house design  capabilities.  Building and maintaining  this capacity
will allow us to reduce  engineering  costs,  accelerate  the design process and
enhance  design  accuracy  to respond  to our  customers'  needs as new  markets
develop.  In addition,  we intend to maintain a product  design staff capable of
rapidly developing  prototype products for our customers and strategic partners.
Contracting third party design support to meet demand and for specialized design
skills will also remain a part of our overall long term strategy.

Our Strategic Relationships

     Strategic  relationships  have been an  important  part of our research and
development efforts to date and are an integral part of our plans for commercial
product  launch.  We have  forged  strategic  relationships  with major OEMs and
strategic suppliers.  We believe that strategic relationships allow us to better
determine the demands of the marketplace and, as a result, allow us to focus our
future  research  and  development  activities  to  better  meet our  customer's
requirements. Moreover, we expect to provide microdisplays and MicroviewersTM to
some of these  partners,  thereby taking  advantage of established  distribution
channels for our products.

     Eastman Kodak is a technology partner in OLED development,  OLED materials,
and a potential  future  customer for both specialty  market display systems and
consumer  market  microdisplays.  We  license  Eastman  Kodak's  OLED and optics
technology portfolio.  We have a nonexclusive,  perpetual,  worldwide license to
use Eastman Kodak patented OLED technology and associated  intellectual property
in the development,  use,  manufacture,  import and sale of  microdisplays.  The
license covers emissive active matrix microdisplays with a diagonal size of less


                                       15
<PAGE>

than 2 inches for all OLED display technology  previously developed by Kodak. An
annual  minimum  royalty is paid at the  beginning of each  calendar year and is
fully  creditable  against the  royalties  we are  obligated to pay based on net
sales  throughout  the year.  Eastman  Kodak and eMagin have engaged in numerous
discussions regarding potential product applications for eMagin's  microdisplays
by Eastman Kodak.

     In our  relationship  with Eastman Kodak,  we share  information  regarding
improvements in the OLED technology and materials generated  internally,  except
where restricted by agreements with other parties.  Eastman Kodak and eMagin are
also  parties  to a  government  research  and  development  program  focused on
developing ultra-high brightness capable and high temperature  compatible OLEDs.
Each company has  developed  certain  types of molecules  for  potential  use in
different parts of the OLED device structure.

     We have a joint research and  development  agreement with IBM to accelerate
the development of OLED-on-silicon technology. The OLED-on-silicon microdisplays
developed  under the agreement have the potential to be  incorporated  in future
IBM products  currently  in  exploratory  or product  development  stages.  This
technology may be  incorporated  into  microdisplays  for possible use in future
microdisplay  products,  including  those  manufactured by IBM, such as wearable
computers and handheld  portable  Internet  appliances.  This technology  effort
resulted in the  development of a prototype  watch computer  utilizing the Linux
operating  system,   which  features  the  world's  first  direct  view  OLED-on
silicon-display. The prototype was publicly demonstrated in 2001 at the Consumer
Electronics Show in Las Vegas and at CeBit in Germany.

     We also have a joint OLED materials  development effort with Covion Organic
Semiconductors  GmbH, a spin-off of Hoechst. We entered into an arrangement with
LG Corporation of Seoul,  Korea for the provision by us of certain  technologies
for  evaluation by LG in return for a payment of $750,000 which was paid in 2000
and 2001. We also completed a convertible  debt financing with SK Corporation of
Seoul,  Korea on  September  18,  2001.  We have worked with  Honeywell,  Kaiser
Electronics  (a  subsidiary  of  Rockwell  Collins),  Raytheon,  and others on a
variety of US government research and development proposals and contracts toward
the development of displays for military and consumer  applications.  The US Air
Force and US Army are currently  providing support under government research and
development  contracts  for  microdisplay  development  with  a goal  of  future
procurement.  We had industry  relationships with LG Electronics,  Harris, NASA,
Lawrence  Livermore  National  Laboratories,   and  the  United  States  Display
Consortium,  among  others.  We  intend  to  continue  to  establish  additional
strategic relationships in the future.

Our Technology Platforms

     OLED-on-Silicon Technology

     Scientists  working at Eastman  Kodak  invented  OLEDs in the early  1980s.
OLEDs are thin  films of stable  organic  materials  that emit  light of various
colors when a voltage is  impressed  across them.  OLEDs are  emissive  devices,
which means they create their own light, as opposed to liquid crystal  displays,
which require a separate light source. As a result,  OLED devices use less power


                                       16
<PAGE>

and can be capable of higher  brightness  and fuller  color than liquid  crystal
microdisplays.  Because the light they emit is  Lambertian,  which means that it
appears equally bright from most forward directions,  a moderate movement in the
eye  does not  change  the  image  brightness  or  color as it does in  existing
technologies. OLED films may be coated on computer chips, permitting millions of
individual  low-voltage light sources to be built on silicon integrated circuits
to produce single color,  white, or full-color display arrays. Many computer and
video  electronic  system  functions  can  be  built  directly  into  a  silicon
integrated  circuit as part of the OLED display,  resulting in an  ultra-compact
system. We believe these features,  together with the  well-established  silicon
integrated circuit fabrication  technology of the semiconductor  industry,  make
our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays attractive for numerous applications.

     We believe our technology  licensing agreement with Eastman Kodak,  coupled
with our own intellectual property portfolio,  gives us a leadership position in
OLED and OLED-on-silicon microdisplay technology. Eastman Kodak provides many of
the  underlying  OLED   technologies  and  we  provide   additional   technology
advancements that have enabled us to coat the silicon  integrated  circuits with
OLEDs.

     We have developed numerous and significant  enhancements to OLED technology
as well as key silicon circuit designs to effectively  incorporate the OLED film
on a silicon  integrated  circuit.  For  example,  we have  developed  a unique,
up-emitting structure for our OLED-on-silicon devices that enables OLED displays
to be built on opaque silicon integrated circuits rather than only on glass. Our
OLED  devices can emit full  visible  spectrum  light that can be isolated  with
color filters to create full color images.  Our  microdisplay  prototypes have a
brightness that can be greater than that of a typical notebook  computer and can
have a potential  lifetime of over 50,000 hours,  in certain  applications.  New
materials and device improvements in development offer future potential for even
better performance for brightness,  efficiency, and lifespan.  Additionally,  we
have invested considerable work over several years to develop unique electronics
control and drive designs for OLED-on-silicon microdisplays.

     In addition to our  OLED-on-silicon  technology,  we have developed compact
optic and lens enhancements  which, when coupled with the microdisplay,  provide
the high quality large screen  appearance that we believe a large  proportion of
the marketplace demands.

     Advantages of OLED Technology

     We  believe  that  our  OLED-on-silicon   technology  provides  significant
advantages  over existing  solutions in our targeted  microdisplay  markets.  We
believe these key advantages will include:

     o Low manufacturing cost;

     o Low cost system solutions;

     o Wide angle light emission resulting in large apparent screen size;

     o Low power consumption for improved battery life and longer system life;


                                       17
<PAGE>
     o Long operating life;

     o High brightness for improved viewing;

     o High-speed performance resulting in clear video images;

     o Wide operating temperature range; and

     o Good environmental stability (vibration and humidity).

     Low manufacturing cost. Many OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays can be built on
an  8-inch  silicon  wafer  using  existing  automated  OLED  and  color  filter
processing tools. The level of automation used lowers labor costs. Only a minute
amount of OLED  material is used in each  OLED-on-silicon  microdisplay  so that
material costs,  other than the integrated circuit itself, are small. The number
of  displays  per  silicon  wafer may be higher on OLEDs than on liquid  crystal
displays  (LCDs)  because OLEDs do not require a  space-wasting  perimeter  seal
band.

     Low cost  systems  solutions.  In  general,  an OEM  using  OLED-on-silicon
microdisplays  will not need to purchase and  incorporate  lighting  assemblies,
color converter related  Applications  Specific  Integrated Circuits (ASICs), or
beam splitter lenses as is the case in liquid crystal microdisplays,  which also
require  illumination.  Many important  display-related  system functions can be
incorporated into an OLED-on-silicon microdisplay, reducing the size and cost of
the   system.   Non-polarized   light   from  OLEDs   permit   lenses  for  many
OLED-on-silicon  applications that are made of a single piece of molded plastic,
which  reduces size,  weight and assembly  cost when compared to the  multipiece
lens  systems used for liquid  crystal  microdisplays.  System cost  relative to
liquid crystal and liquid crystal on silicon (LCOS) competitive products is thus
reduced.  Because our displays are power efficient,  they typically require less
power at the system level than other  display  technologies  at a given  display
size and brightness.

     Wide-angle light emission simplifies optics for large apparent screen size.
OLEDs emit light at most forward  directions  from each pixel.  This permits the
display  to be placed  close to the lens in  compact  optical  systems.  It also
provides  the added  benefit of less  angular  dependence  on the image  quality
relative to pupil and eye position  when  showing a large field of view,  unlike
reflective  LCOS  microdisplays.  This  results in less eye fatigue and makes it
relatively easy to position the imaging systems to the eye.

     Low power  consumption  for improved  battery life and longer  system life.
OLEDs emit light rather than transmitting it, so no power-consuming backlight or
frontlight,  as required for liquid crystal displays, is required.  OLEDs can be
energy  efficient  because  of their high  efficiency  light  generation.  Power
efficiency  can be high in OLED  displays  because they require only low voltage
switching  (2-5 volts is typical,  depending on the mode of operation)  and less
display-external electronics. Furthermore, OLEDs conserve power by powering only
those pixels that are on while liquid  crystal on silicon  requires light at all
pixels  all the  time.  Most  optical  systems  used for our  OLEDs  are  highly
efficient, permitting over 80% of the light to reach the eye, whereas reflective
technologies  such as liquid crystal on silicon require  multiple


                                       18
<PAGE>

beam  splitters to get light to the display,  and then into the optical  system.
This  results  in  typically  less  than  25%  light  throughput  efficiency  in
reflective  microdisplay systems. Most important,  we do not need a power-hungry
video  frame  buffer,  as  required  in liquid  crystal  frame-sequential  color
systems.  Battery life can  therefore be long. A  stereovision  headset  display
using our  SVGA-3D  displays  can run off the USB port of a  computer  and could
operate for over 5 hours using three AAA batteries.

     Long  operating  life.  Most of our  potential  customers  require 5,000 to
10,000 hours of operation to  half-life.  Half-life  refers to the time it takes
the operating  display to reach half of its initial  brightness.  We believe our
OLED display  technology  already exceeds these numbers for most of our consumer
product  applications.  There  does  not  appear  to be a  fundamental  limit to
significant  life  increases.  Test  devices  in our  research  laboratory  have
exceeded an extrapolated 100,000 hours to half-life.

     High  brightness  for  improved  viewing.  Because  OLEDs  have  electrical
characteristics  similar to those of semiconductor  diodes, they can run at very
high brightness with only a moderate increase in voltage. This will enable us to
build  extremely  bright displays using drive voltages of 24 volts or less. This
feature can be of great value to military applications, where there is a need to
see the computer image overlaid onto brightly lit real-life  backgrounds such as
desert sand, water reflections or sunlit clouds. The OLED can be operated over a
large  luminance  range  without  loss of gray  level  control,  permitting  the
displays  to be used in a range  of dark  environments  to very  bright  ambient
applications.  Since military simulation and situation  awareness  applications,
including  night  vision,  typically  require  large fields of view,  the OLED's
Lambertian optical characteristics make it an excellent choice.

     High-speed  performance  resulting in clear video images.  The OLEDs switch
much more rapidly than liquid  crystals or most cathode ray tubes  (CRTs).  This
results in smear-free video rate imagery and provides improved image quality for
DVD  playback  applications.  This  eliminates  visible  image  smear  and makes
practicable  three-dimensional  stereo  imaging  using a split frame rate.  This
advantage of our  OLED-on-silicon is very important for 3-D stereovision  gaming
applications.

     Flicker-free;   no  color  breakup.   Because  the  OLED-on-silicon  stores
brightness and color  information at each pixel,  the display can be run with no
noticeable flicker and no color sequential breakup, even at low refresh rates. A
lower  refresh  rate not only helps reduce  power,  it also  facilitates  system
integration.  Color sequential  breakup occurs in systems such as liquid crystal
on silicon and some liquid  crystal  display  microdisplays  when red, green and
blue frames are  sequentially  imaged in time for the eye to combine.  Since the
different  color  screens occur at different  times,  movement of the eye due to
vibration or just fast pupil movement can create color bands at each  dark-light
edge, making the image unpleasant to view and making text difficult to read. For
example, the liquid crystal on silicon display needs to run at least three times
the  "normal"  frame rate or speed to produce  color  sequential  images,  which
wastes  power and makes  for a  difficult  technological  challenge  as  display
resolutions increase.

     Wide operating  temperature  range.  Our OLEDs offer much less  temperature
sensitivity at both high and low  temperatures  than LCDs.  LCDs are sluggish or


                                       19
<PAGE>

non-operative  much below  freezing  unless  heaters are added and lose contrast
above 50 degrees C, while our OLEDs turn on  instantly  and can operate  between
-55 degrees C and 130 degrees C. We specify a smaller  range on most products to
accommodate low cost  packaging.  This is an important  characteristic  for many
portable  products  that  may be used  outdoors  in many  varying  environmental
conditions. It is especially important for military customers.  Insensitivity to
vibration,   shock,  and  pressure  are  also  important  environmental  control
attributes.

     Complementary Lens and System Technology

     We have developed a wide range of  technologies  which  complement our core
OLED and lens  technologies  and which will enhance our competitive  position in
the microdisplay and head-wearable display markets. These include:

     Lens   technology:   We  have  developed   advanced  lens   technology  for
microdisplays  and  head-wearable  display systems and hold key patents in these
areas. Our lens technology permits our OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays to provide
large field of view images that can be viewed for extended  periods with reduced
eye-fatigue.

     We believe that the key advantages of our lens technology include:

     -- Can be very low cost, with minimal assembly. A one piece, molded plastic
     optic  attached to the  microdisplay  can serve many  consumer  end-product
     markets.  Since our  process is plastic  molding,  our per unit  production
     costs are low;

     -- Allows a compact and lightweight  lens system that can greatly magnify a
     microdisplay to produce a large field of view;

     -- Can use  single-piece  molded  microdisplay  lenses to permit high light
     throughput  making the display image brighter or permitting the use of less
     power for an acceptable brightness;

     -- Can be  designed  to  provide  focusing  to enable  users  with  various
     eyesight qualities to view images clearly; and

     -- Can optionally provide focal plane adjustment for simultaneous  focusing
     of computer images and real world objects. For example, this characteristic
     is beneficial  for word  processing  or  spreadsheet  applications  where a
     person is typing data in from reference material.  This feature can make it
     easier for people with moderately poor accommodation to use a head-wearable
     display as a portable computer-viewing accessory.

     Head-wearable display technology.  We have developed ergonomic technologies
that  make   head-wearable   displays  easier  to  use  in  a  wide  variety  of
applications.  For  example,  the  use of our  patented  rotatable  EyeblockerTM
provides a sharp image without  requiring  most users to squint.  The Eyeblocker
can  also be  moved  to  create  an  effective  see-through  appearance.  To our
knowledge,  we have  made the  lightest  weight,  high-resolution  head-wearable
display  with  an  over   35(Degree)   diagonal  field  of  view  ever  publicly
demonstrated.


                                       20
<PAGE>

     Wireless video  technology.  We have developed power efficient,  miniature,
video and stereo sound, radio frequency transmitter-receiver  technology as part
of a government program. This can allow consumers to watch wireless high quality
video from most locations in their home using existing  entertainment (e.g., DVD
or  cable/satellite  systems)  or data  systems.  We expect this  capability  to
greatly   increase  the   available   market  and  demand  for  video  and  data
head-wearable  displays and we are  considering  this  technology for use in low
cost  consumer  applications.  Commercialization  of  this  technology  will  be
considered in 2003.


     Our OLED-related Technological Milestones:

     We believe that we have made significant  breakthroughs in  OLED-on-silicon
microdisplay technology and that the following represent key milestones:

Date                          Milestone
--------------------------    --------------------------------------------------
May 1998                      We  publicly   demonstrated   the  world's   first
                              OLED-on-silicon  integrated circuit video graphics
                              array video (monochrome VGA, 640x480 pixels). This
                              showed  that  OLED  microdisplays  could  be built
                              directly on silicon integrated circuits.
February 1999                 We  publicly   demonstrated   the  world's   first
                              up-emitting full color OLED-on-silicon video. (Low
                              resolution   QVGA,   320x240  pixels  using  color
                              filters).  This showed  that color  video  capable
                              OLEDs   could  be  built  on  silicon   integrated
                              circuits using color filters.
May 2000                      We  publicly   demonstrated  the  world's  highest
                              efficiency,  bright white OLED-on-silicon publicly
                              displayed  to  date.  We  also   demonstrated  the
                              world's highest  resolution OLED display  publicly
                              displayed to date  (1280x1024  pixels) using a new
                              white light emitter in an OLED-on-silicon display.
                              This  showed  that  our   OLEDs-on-silicon   could
                              provide  a good  quality  bright  white  image and
                              could generate high resolution  moving images with
                              quality gray scale control.
September 2000                We  publicly   demonstrated   the  world's   first
                              full-color    active    matrix     OLED-on-silicon
                              microdisplay (VGA resolution, 640x480 pixels). The
                              display used color filters  built  directly on top
                              of the OLED  display  and  incorporated  our white
                              light organic light  emitting  diodes  technology.
                              This showed the first near  product-quality  color
                              moving images using OLED-on-silicon technology.
October 2000                  We  publicly   previewed   the   world's   highest
                              resolution super video graphics array (SVGA+,  852
                              x 3 x 600 pixels, over 1.5 million color elements)
                              which was the first active matrix  OLED-on-silicon
                              microdisplay  designed for  consumer  applications
                              ever publicly displayed.  The display was shown in
                              white  monochrome,   but  the  integrated  circuit
                              design is color compatible.


                                       21
<PAGE>

January 2001                  We publicly  demonstrated,  with IBM,  the world's
                              first  direct view  OLED-on-silicon  microdisplay,
                              which was incorporated into a computer watch which
                              used the Linux operation system.  The microdisplay
                              has higher  resolution  and higher  contrast  than
                              other  similarly sized  wrist-worn  multi-function
                              displays.
May 2001                      We  publicly  demonstrated  our  first  commercial
                              product  display,  a 852 x 600 (SVGA+)  full color
                              microdisplay  with 15 (mu)m  pixels at the Society
                              for Information Display  International  Symposium.
                              This   coincided   with   initiation   of   sample
                              deliveries.

October 2001                  We  publicly   demonstrated   the  world's   first
                              microdisplay with built-in stereovision capability
                              (SVGA-3D)  in a binocular  3D headset in Yokohama,
                              Japan.

February 2002                 We  made  initial  commercial   shipments  of  our
                              SVGA-3D microdisplay.


Sales and Marketing

     Current Status:

     We are shipping initial quantities of our first two commercial microdisplay
products. Our SVGA+ resolution OLED microdisplay (1.53 million picture elements)
was specifically designed to meet the needs of several military, industrial, and
medical  customers based on marketing  information  obtained prior to the design
phase of the display  and was first  offered  for  sampling  in April 2001.  Our
stereovision-capable  SVGA-3D  microdisplay  (1.44 million picture elements) was
designed with the input of multiple  customers to principally  target the mobile
personal  computer (PC) and PC games markets,  and was first shipped in February
2002.  We are  currently  far along in  developing  a  military  and  industrial
oriented  ultra-high-luminance  SXGA resolution  integrated circuit (3.9 million
picture  elements)  that is due for  completion  in  2002,  and we have  shipped
limited quantities of prototypes of our eGlass headsets. (See "Our Products").

     Near term sales efforts have been focused on our military,  industrial, and
medial  customers.  Out primary  production  orders and design wins to date have
been for the SVGA+  display.  To date, we have shipped  products and  evaluation
kits to more than 60 OEM customers. OEM evaluation and product design cycles may
take from 6 months to 24 months.  Some of out initial  customers  have completed
their initial  evaluation  cycle and we are now receiving  follow-on  orders and
notification of product  purchase  decisions.  Several  customers have inidcated
their intent to incorporate  potentially high volumes of our microdisplays  into
consumer  products during 2002 through 2004. We have also received  notification
that our  microdisplays  will be used as components in verion 1.0 of the US Army
Land Warrior program and in the US Air Force Joint Strike Fighter program.

     General Sales and Marketing Effort:

     We primarily  provide display  components and  MicroviewerTM  display-optic
modules for OEMs to  incorporate  into their  branded  products and sell through
their   well-established   distribution   channels.   In  addition,   we  market
head-wearable  displays  directly to various vertical market  channels,  such as
medical, industrial, and government customers. A typical buyer is a manufacturer
of a product requiring a specific resolution of visual display or viewfinder for
insertion into a product such as a portable DVD headset, a PC-gaming headset, or
an instrument.

     As a market-driven  company,  we assess customer needs both  quantitatively
and qualitatively,  through market research and direct  communications.  Because
our  microdisplays  are the main  functional  component that defines many of our
customers' end products,  we work closely with potential customers to define our
products to optimize  the final  design,  typically  on an  engineer-to-engineer
basis.

     We identify  companies  with end  products  and  applications  for which we
believe that our products will provide a system level solution and for which our
products can be a key  differentiator.  We target both market leaders and select
early adopter companies;  their acceptance validates our technology and approach
in the market. We believe successful  marketing will require  relationships with
recognized consumer brand companies.

     OEMs  develop  designs  to enable  them to develop  products  for their own
target markets.  An OEM design cycle typically requires between 6 and 24 months,
depending on the uniqueness of the market and the complexity of the end product.
New  product   development  may  require  several  design  iterations  prior  to
commercialization.


                                       22
<PAGE>

     We design our products to meet individual customer  requirements,  but look
for ways to leverage our design and development costs by incorporating  multiple
customers'  requirements  into each  product.  We work  closely  with  potential
customers to maximize the probability  that our microdisplay and lenses products
being designed will match the  anticipated  future needs of the  customers.  Our
introductory  consumer  product  entry,  our  SVGA+,  is a  prime  example  of a
market-driven  product design. After determining the resolution  requirements of
key potential  customers  via direct market  studies,  we  incorporated  52 more
imaging  columns  than a standard  SVGA  display.  These added  columns  made it
possible for the SVGA+  display to interface to  wide-screen  format DVD players
using all the data from the  player  (852 x 480  pixels)  in a 16:9 wide  screen
entertainment  format  while also  having the  capability  to  interface  to the
standard SVGA (800 x 600 pixels) analog output of many portable computers.

     We incorporate product evaluation feedback into subsequent designs. We gain
a  detailed  understanding  of  competitive  strengths  and  weaknesses  of  our
technology and product designs as well as that of alternate technologies.

     To date,  we have  chosen to focus our efforts on product  development  and
have  maintained  a  relatively  limited  marketing  capability.  As we  ramp up
production  of our products and expand our markets,  we plan to hire  additional
technical  marketing  and  customer  support  staff to increase  our coverage of
consumer,  industrial,  and military market  segments.  The marketing staff will
identify new customer  needs,  and help insure that the  integrated  circuit and
electronics  designers correctly understand the customers' product specification
and delivery needs. We expect that as the market for  microdisplays  matures and
more universal embedded systems become commonplace,  the role of traditional OEM
component  sales will become more  important.  Our management  will  continually
reassess the success of our  marketing  and sales  methodology  to best meet the
needs of our customers.

Research and Development

     OLED technology is a relatively new technology that has  considerable  room
for  substantial  improvements in luminance,  life,  power  efficiency,  voltage
swing,  design compactness,  and many other parameters.  We also anticipate that
achieving   reductions  in  manufacturing  costs  will  require  new  technology
developments. We anticipate that improving the performance,  capability and cost
of our  products  will provide an  important  competitive  advantage in our fast
moving,  high  technology  marketplace.  Past and  current  research  activities
include  development of improved OLED and display device structures,  developing
and/or  evaluating  new  materials  (including  the  synthesis  of  new  organic
molecules),  manufacturing equipment and process development, electronics design
methodologies  and new  circuits and the  development  of new lenses and related
systems. During 2002 we plan to focus primarily on near-term product development
projects to meet  near-term  customer  needs during 2002.  However,  in order to
improve customer  satisfaction and simultaneously  maximize our margins, as well
as  to  maintain  competitive  technology  advantages,  we  believe  that  it is
important to continue to engage in long-term  research and  development.  During
the past three years, we have spent  approximately $38.9 million on research and


                                       23
<PAGE>

non-operative  much  below  approximately  $11.3  million;  in  2000,  we  spent
approximately  $13.3 million;  and in 2001, we spent approximately $14.3 million
on research and development. During the same three-year period, we received $4.2
million in funding  from US  government  under  research  and  development  cost
sharing arrangements.

     External   relationships  play  an  important  role  in  our  research  and
development efforts.  Suppliers,  equipment vendors,  government  organizations,
contract  research  groups,  external design  companies,  customer and corporate
partners,  consortia,  and  university  relationships  all  enhance  the overall
research  and  development  effort  and  bring  us  new  ideas  (See  "Strategic
Relationships").

     We received a Phase III Small Business  Innovation  Research grant from the
US Air Force, providing $17.5 million to fund research involving the development
of high-resolution  active matrix organic light emitting diode microdisplays for
incorporation  into military  head-mounted  displays.  We also work with Eastman
Kodak and Honeywell in an Air Force-sponsored dual applications research program
to develop  ultra-high  luminance capable and high temperature  compatible OLEDs
and with the US Army Night Vision Lab to develop  active  matrix  organic  light
emitting diode technology.

Manufacturing Facilities

     We are located at IBM's  Microelectronics  Division facility,  known as the
Hudson Valley  Research  Park,  located about 70 miles north of New York City in
Hopewell Junction,  New York. We lease approximately 45,000 square feet of space
housing our own equipment for OLED  microdisplay  fabrication,  and for research
and development plus additional space for assembly and  administrative  offices.
We believe that our lease  agreement  with IBM for a 16,300 square foot class 10
clean room space,  along with additional,  lower level clean room space, and the
associated   acquisition  of  substantial  amounts  of  advanced   manufacturing
equipment at a favorable  cost,  represents a substantial  asset and competitive
advantage.  At this time, we owe to IBM previously  unpaid lease payments and we
have set aside funds to make such  payments in order to maintain our lease.  Our
lease  runs until 2004 and we have the option to then renew it on the same terms
for five additional one-year terms.

     Facilities services provided by IBM include our cleanroom, pure gases, high
purity  de-ionized  water,  compressed  air,  chilled water  systems,  and waste
disposal support. This infrastructure provided by our lease with IBM provides us
with many of the resources of a larger  corporation  without the added  overhead
costs.  It further  allows us to focus our  resources  more  efficiently  on our
product  development and  manufacturing  goals. We are currently  staffing for a
two-shift/5 day per week  operation.  We believe that our facility is capable of
producing  over  50,000  SVGA+  or  SVGA-3D  displays  per  month  once  we  are
manufacturing  around the clock (24  hour/7-days  per week) with a fully  loaded
manufacturing line.

     We lease additional non-cleanroom facilities for chemical mixing, cleaning,
chemical systems, and glass/silicon  cutting.  OLED chemicals can be purified in
our  facility  with our  equipment,  permitting  the  company  to  evaluate  new
chemicals in pilot  production that are not yet available in suitable purity for
OLED applications on the market.


                                       24
<PAGE>

     Our display  fabrication  process starts with the silicon  wafer,  which is
manufactured by a semiconductor foundry using conventional CMOS process. After a
device is designed by a  combination  of internal  and external  designers  with
customer participation, we outsource wafer fabrication.

     Our manufacturing process for OLED-on-silicon  microdisplays has three main
components:  organic film deposition,  organic film encapsulation (also known as
sealing), and color filter processing.  All steps are performed in an automated,
hands-free environment suitable for high volume throughput. An automated cluster
tool provides all OLED deposition steps in a highly controlled  environment that
is the centerpiece of our OLED fabrication. After wafer processing, each part is
inspected  using an automated  inspection  system,  prior to  shipment.  We have
electrical and optical instrumentation  required to characterize the performance
of our displays including photometric and color coordinate analysis. We are also
equipped for integrated circuit and electronics design and display testing

     Our lenses and system development  operation at Virtual Vision operates out
of a leased  facility in Redmond,  Washington.  The current  facilities  include
design  stations,  computer-aided  plastics  milling  and  preparations,  lenses
fabrication,  product assembly, and office space. The facilities are well suited
for  designing  and  building  limited  volume   prototypes  and  industrial  or
government  products.  We plan to outsource  high volume  head-wearable  display
production to low cost plastics,  lenses, and assembly manufacturers,  including
manufacturers in Asia.

     We believe that manufacturing efficiency is an important factor for success
in the consumer markets.  We believe that high yield and maximum  utilization of
our  equipment  set will be key for  profitability  in 2002 and 2003. We believe
that all of the main components for  manufacturing  success are in place, but we
require additional capital to: (1) staff and train employees for round the clock
operation,  (2) build  suitable  inventory of integrated  circuits and other raw
materials,  and (3)  properly  maintain  and  upgrade  the  equipment  set.  The
equipment required for initial profitable production is in place. Some equipment
will be added when our  production  volume  increases.  We will ramp  production
primarily by adding multi-shift staff and increasing inventory.

     We intend to outsource certain  capital-intensive  portions of microdisplay
production to minimize both our costs and time to market. Joint ventures will be
considered  for  higher  quantity  OLED  production.   We  currently   outsource
integrated  circuit  fabrication  while retaining the OLED  application and OLED
sealing  processes  in-house.  We  believe  that we have a core  competency  and
manufacturing  expertise in OLED  application  and sealing,  and that  retaining
these  key  processes   in-house  will  facilitate   protection  of  proprietary
technology and process  know-how which provide us with a competitive  advantage.
This  strategy  will also  enhance  our  ability to  continue  to  optimize  and
customize processes and devices to meet customer needs.


                                       25
<PAGE>

Intellectual Property

     We have developed a significant intellectual property portfolio of patents,
trade secrets and know-how,  supported by our license from Eastman Kodak and our
current patent portfolio.

     Our  license  from  Eastman  Kodak  gives us the right to use in  miniature
displays a portfolio of more than 75 patents in organic light emitting diode and
optics  technology,  some of which are  fundamental.  Our agreement with Eastman
Kodak   provides  for  perpetual   access  to  the  OLED   technology   for  our
OLED-on-silicon  applications,  provided we remain  active in the field and meet
our contractual  requirements to Eastman Kodak. In our relationship with Eastman
Kodak, we share  information  regarding  improvements in the OLED technology and
materials generated internally, except where restricted by agreements with other
parties. (see "Strategic Relationships.")

     We also generate intellectual property as a result of our internal research
and development activities.  We currently have a portfolio of 64 issued patents,
approximately 50 patents filed, and additional patent applications in process.

     Our patents and patent applications cover a wide range of materials, device
structures,   processes,   and  fabrication  techniques,   such  as  methods  of
fabricating full color OLEDs. We believe that our patent  applications  relating
to up-emitting structures on opaque substrates such as silicon wafers, which are
critical  for OLED  microdisplays,  and  applications  relating to the  hermetic
sealing  of  such  structures  are  particularly  important.   Our  patents  are
concentrated in the following areas:

     o OLED Materials, Structures, and Processes
     o Display Color Processing and Sealing
     o Active Matrix Circuit Methodologies and Designs
     o Field Emission and General Display Technologies
     o Lenses and Tracking (Eye and Head)
     o Ergonomics and Industrial Design
     o Wearable Computer Interface Methodology

     We  believe  that  protection  of  these  key  enabling   technologies  and
components  to be a  fundamental  aspect of our  strategy to  penetrate  diverse
markets with unique products.  We intend to continue to develop our portfolio of
proprietary and patented  technologies at the design,  materials,  process,  and
system levels.

     We also rely on proprietary  technology,  trade secrets, and know-how which
are not  patented.  To  protect  our  rights  in these  areas,  we  require  all
employees,  and  where  appropriate,   contractors,  consultants,  advisors  and
collaborators to enter into confidentiality and noncompetition agreements. There
can be no assurance,  however,  that these  agreements  will provide  meaningful
protection for our trade secrets,  know-how or other proprietary  information in
the event of any unauthorized use,  misappropriation or disclosure of such trade
secrets,  know-how  or  other  proprietary  information.


                                       26
<PAGE>

     We believe  that our  intellectual  property  portfolio,  coupled  with our
strategic relationships and accumulated experience in the OLED field gives us an
advantage over potential competitors.

     Competition

     We may  face  competition  in the  OLED and  microdisplay  industry  from a
variety of companies and technologies.  We believe that our key competition will
come  from  liquid  crystal  on  silicon  microdisplays  (LCOS),  also  known as
reflective  liquid  crystal  displays.  While we  believe  that  OLED-on-silicon
provides  comparatively  lower lenses cost, larger apparent image size,  reduced
electronics  cost and complexity,  enhanced color, and improved power efficiency
advantages over liquid crystal on silicon  microdisplays,  there is no assurance
that  these  benefits  will  be  realized  or that  liquid  crystal  on  silicon
manufacturers  will not suitably improve these parameters.  Color liquid crystal
on silicon  displays are currently  being  sampled,  and may be in higher volume
production a year or more earlier than color OLED  displays,  which could have a
significant  detrimental  effect on our market  opportunity.  Companies pursuing
liquid  crystal  on  silicon   technology  include   Microdisplay   Corporation,
Three-Five  Systems,  and  Spatial  Light  among  others,  although  most of the
companies  are  primarily  focusing  on  projection  microdisplays  which do not
compete  directly  with the  company.  In  certain  markets,  we may  also  face
competition  from developers of transmissive  liquid crystal  displays,  such as
those developed by Kopin, or laser scanning systems,  such as those developed by
Microvision Corporation.

     To our knowledge,  the only other company that has publicly stated plans to
develop OLED microdisplays for near-eye  applications is MicroEmissive  Displays
(Britain,  a start-up company).  We may also compete with potential licensees of
Universal  Display  Corporation,   Cambridge  Display  Corporation,   and  Uniax
Corporation,  each of which license OLED technology  portfolios.  Even though we
could  potentially   license   technology  from  these   developers,   potential
competitors  could also obtain licenses and may do so at more favorable  royalty
rates.  However,  should they decide to embark on  developing  microdisplays  on
silicon,  we  believe  that  our  progress  to  date  in this  area  gives  us a
substantial head start.

     Our microdisplays and head-wearable display systems may face competition on
a price and performance  basis from major  manufacturers  such as Sony and Seiko
Epson.  However,   these  companies  use  first  generation  liquid  crystal  on
polysilicon  technology and therefore,  we believe that they may incorporate our
technology into their products when it becomes available.

Employees

     As of February 15, 2002, we had a total of 34 employees.  Prior to our work
force reduction on December 3, 2001, we had a total of 91 employees. None of our
employees are  represented by a labor union.  We have not  experienced  any work
stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good.
