ITEM 1:  BUSINESS


Introduction

     eMagin Corporation designs, develops, and markets OLED (organic light
emitting diode)-on-silicon microdisplays and related information technology
solutions. We integrate OLED technology with silicon chips to produce
high-resolution microdisplays smaller than one-inch diagonally which, when
viewed through a magnifier, create a virtual image that appears comparable to
that of a computer monitor or a large-screen television. Our products enable our
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers to develop and market improved
or new electronic products. Our first commercial product, the SVGA+ (Super Video
Graphics Array plus 52 added columns of data) OLED microdisplay was first
offered for sampling in 2001, and our first SVGA-3D (Super Video Graphics Array
plus built-in stereovision capability) OLED microdisplay was first shipped in
February 2002. We are now accepting conditional purchase agreements for larger
quantities of our first two commercial microdisplay products. These products are
being applied or considered for near-eye and headset applications in products
such as entertainment and gaming headsets, handheld Internet and
telecommunication appliances, viewfinders, and wearable computers to be
manufactured by OEM customers for military, medical, industrial, and consumer
applications. We market our products in North American, Europe, and Asia.

     Our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays offer a number of advantages over current
liquid crystal microdisplays, including increased brightness, lower power
requirements, less weight and wider viewing angles. Using our active matrix OLED
technology, many computer and video electronic system functions can be built
directly into the OLED-on-silicon microdisplay, resulting in compact systems
with expected lower overall system costs relative to alternate microdisplay
technologies. We license fundamental OLED technology from Eastman Kodak and we
have developed our own technology to create high performance OLED-on-silicon
microdisplays and related optical systems. iSuppli-Stanford Resources, an
industry market research organization, has identified the emergence of OLED
technology as a major advance, with OLED revenue expected to reach $125 million
in 2003 and rise to more than $3.1 billion in 2009 for a compound annual growth
rate of 56% from 2003 to 2009.

     As the first to exploit OLED technology for microdisplays, and with our
partners and intellectual property, we believe that we enjoy a significant
advantage in the commercialization of this display technology. We are the only
company to announce, publicly show and sell full-color OLED-on-silicon
microdisplays.

     Our wholly owned subsidiary, Virtual Vision, Inc., provides added value
services to our customers by providing non-recurring engineering (NRE) support
for virtual imaging subsystem design and prototyping, as well as by creating
standardized optic and electronics interfaces to our displays to accelerate the
time to market of our new potential customers.

Industry Overview

     The overall flat panel display industry is predicted to grow to over $69
billion in 2005, according to market research by DisplaySearch. Within the flat
panel industry there are various sizes and applications of flat panel displays,
ranging from wall size signage to calculator and viewfinder displays. Displays
are sold as independent products (such as flat TVs) or as components of other
systems (such as laptop computers). Our products target one segment of the flat
panel industry - near-eye microdisplays.

     Near-eye microdisplays are used in small optically magnified devices such
as video headsets, camcorders, viewfinders and other portable devices.
Microdisplays are typically of such high resolution that they are only
practically viewed with magnifying optics. Although the displays are typically
physically smaller than a postage stamp, they can provide a magnified viewing
area similar to that of a full size computer screen. For example, when magnified
through a lens, a high-resolution 0.5-inch to 0.75-inch diagonal display can
appear comparable to a 19 to 21-inch diagonal computer screen at about 2 feet
from the viewer or a 60-inch TV screen at about 6 feet. One version of our
optics recreates the viewing and sound experience of sitting in the middle seat
of a typical movie theater.

                                       5
<PAGE>
     iSuppli-Stanford Resources, a market intelligence firm focusing on the
global electronic display industry, forecasts that the world market for
microdisplays as components will grow from $669 million in 2001 to $1.9 billion
in 2007, for a compounded annual growth rate of 19%, with 244 million units
projected to be shipped in 2007. Another leading industry market research
organization, DisplaySearch, projects that the overall microdisplay market is
expected to grow to $3.1 billion by 2005.

     We believe that the most significant driver of the microdisplay market is
growing consumer demand for mobile access to larger volumes of information and
entertainment in smaller packages. This desire for mobility has resulted in the
development of microdisplay products in two categories: (i) near-eye
microdisplays incorporated in products such as viewfinders, digital cameras,
video cameras and personal viewers for cell phones and (ii) headset-application
platforms which include mobile devices such as notebook and sub-notebook
computers, wearable computers, portable DVD systems, games and other
entertainment.

     Until now, microdisplay technologies have not simultaneously met all of the
requirements for high resolution, full color, low power consumption, brightness,
lifetime, size and cost which are required for successful commercialization in
OEM consumer products. We believe that our new OLED-on-silicon microdisplay
product line meets these requirements better than alternate products and will
help to enable virtual imaging to emerge as an important display industry
segment.

Our Approach: OLED-on-Silicon Microdisplays and Optics

     There are two basic classes of organic light emitting diode (OLED)
technology, dubbed molecular and polymer. Our microdisplays are currently based
upon active matrix molecular OLED technology, which we call OLED-on-silicon
because we build the displays directly on silicon chips. Our OLED-on-silicon
technology uniquely permits millions of individual low-voltage light sources to
be built on low-cost, silicon computer chips to produce single color, white, or
full-color display arrays. OLED-on-silicon microdisplays offer a number of
advantages over current liquid crystal microdisplays, including increased
brightness, lower power requirements, less weight and wider viewing angles.
Using our OLED technology, many computer and video electronic system functions
can be built directly into the silicon chip, under the OLED film, resulting in
very compact, integrated systems with lowered overall system costs relative to
alternate technologies.

     We have developed our own proprietary technology to create high performance
OLED-on-silicon microdisplays and related optical systems and we license
fundamental OLED technology from Eastman Kodak. (See "Intellectual Property" and
"Strategic Relationships") We expect that the integration of our OLED-on-silicon
microdisplays into mobile electronic products will result in lower overall
system costs to our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers.

     We believe that our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays represent a new
generation of microdisplay technology. Because our microdisplays generate and
emit light, they have a wider viewing angle than competing liquid crystal
microdisplays, and because they have the same high brightness at all forward
viewing angles, our microdisplays permit a large field-of-view and superior
optical image. The wider viewing angle of our display results in the following
superior optical characteristics:

o        the user does not need to as accurately position the head-wearable
         display to the eye;

o        the image will change minimally with eye movement and appear more
         natural; and

o        the display can be placed further from the eye and not cut off part of
         the image.

     In addition, our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays offer faster response times
and use less power than competitive liquid crystal microdisplay systems. We
expect that our integrated electronics and unique OLED characteristics, coupled
with our lenses, will result in lower overall system costs for OEMs.

     Our OLED microdisplay stores, until refreshed, all the color and luminance
value information at each of the more than 1.5 million picture elements (pixels)
in the display array, eliminating the flicker or color breakup seen by most
other high-resolution microdisplay technologies. Even power efficient frame
rates as low 30 Hz can usually be used effectively. Power consumption at the
system level is expected to be the lowest of any full-color, full-video SVGA
resolution range, large view microdisplay on the market. The OLED's ability to

                                       6
<PAGE>
emit light at wide angles allows customers to create large field of view
(approx. 40 degrees), wide image capture range images from very compact,
low-cost, one-piece optical systems. The display contains the majority of the
electronics required for connection to the RGB (red, green, blue signal) port of
a portable computer imbedded in its silicon chip backplane, thereby eliminating
many other components required by other display technologies such as D-A
converters, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), light sources,
multiple optical elements, and other components. We believe that these features
enable our new class of microdisplay to potentially be the most compact, highest
image quality, and lowest cost solution for high resolution near-eye
applications, once in full production.

     We have commercialized two products, our SVGA+ resolution microdisplay
(1.53 million picture elements) and our stereovision-capable SVGA-3D
microdisplay (1.44 million picture elements). We are currently developing a
military and industrial oriented ultra-high-luminance SXGA integrated circuit
(3.9 million picture elements) that is due for completion in late 2003 or 2004.
We sell our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays for use as components by customers who
prefer to design and build their own lenses or coupled with our own optics. We
also plan to offer OLED processing on our customers' integrated circuits to some
OEMs who design their own integrated circuits. We provide Developer Kits, which
include a color SVGA+ resolution microdisplay and associated electronics
required for OEMs to build and test new products. This developer kit provides
OEMs with the first opportunity for evaluation of an OLED-on-silicon
microdisplay.

         Our Products

     We offer our products to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) and other
large volume buyers as both separate components and integrated bundles in a
three-tiered platform:

     (1) OLED-on-silicon microdisplays for integration into OEM products for
         consumer, industrial, and military markets;

     (2) Microviewer(TM) modules that incorporate our OLED-on-silicon
         microdisplays with compact lenses and electronic interfaces for
         integration into OEM products for consumer, industrial, and military
         markets. These products have been prototyped and are planned;

     (3) Head-wearable display systems that will incorporate our
         Microviewers(TM) for consumer and industrial markets. These products
         have been prototyped and are planned.

     We also plan to offer engineering support, enabling customers to quickly
integrate our products into their own product development programs.

     (1) OLED Microdisplay Products

     We serve as a component manufacturer by supplying our OLED-on-silicon
microdisplays for those customers who have their own lenses or integrated
circuits. Our first commercial microdisplay products include:

     0.62-inch Diagonal SVGA+ (Super Video Graphics Array plus 52 added columns
of data) for Consumer OEMs. This display has a resolution of 852 x 3 x 600
pixels, and was dubbed "SVGA+" because it has 52 more display columns than a
standard SVGA display. The design permits users to run either (1) standard SVGA
(800 x 600 pixels) to interface to the analog output of many portable computers
or (2) 852 x 480, using all the data available from a DVD player in a 16:9 wide
screen entertainment format. The SVGA+ can be made as a full-color or monochrome
microdisplay primarily for high-performance and large-view consumer OEM products
such as games, video/data head-wearable displays, digital cameras, video cameras
and other portable electronics applications. The display also has an internal
NTSC monochrome video decoder for low power night vision systems. This product
is designed to interface with most portable personal computers.

     0.59-inch Diagonal SVGA-3D (Super Video Graphics Array plus built-in
stereovision capability) for Consumer OEMs. This display has a resolution of 800
x 3 x 600 pixels. The SVGA-3D can be made as a full-color or monochrome
microdisplay primarily for high-performance and large-view consumer OEM products
such as personal computer games and video/data head-wearable displays, but is
also designed to be applicable for digital cameras, video cameras and other

                                       7
<PAGE>
portable electronics applications since the 3D feature is optional. A built-in
circuit provides compatibility with single channel frame sequential stereoscopic
vision without additional external components. In high volumes, the SVGA-3D is
priced lower than the SVGA+, so it is likely to be selected whenever the OEM
customer does not need monochrome NTSC or the extra columns of resolution.

     0.98-inch Diagonal SXGA (Super Extended Video Graphics Array) for
Industrial, Medical and Military Applications. We are developing an introductory
SXGA microdisplay product as a personal computer-compatible headset display for
military, medical, high-end commercial, and industrial applications. This
product will have 1280 x 1024 monochrome pixels and will be adaptable to color
VGA resolution. The display will have a capability for very high luminance. We
expect that this display will be able provide over 30,000 Cd/m2 luminance. For
reference, a typical notebook computer operates at 80 Cd/m2 peak luminance. This
digital video and data interface product is being designed to exhibit a wide
dimming range and high luminance for special military applications. We
anticipate that the performance features of the SXGA, such as high-speed digital
video and 256 gray levels, have the potential to serve as a catalyst for the
development of new applications.

     (2) Microviewer(TM) Products Incorporating Lenses

     By providing an integrated solution of a complete microdisplay and lens
assembly to integrate into OEM customers' end product design, OEM customers can
avoid incurring expensive optics design and tooling costs. Different lens and
microdisplay specifications can be mixed and matched to be adapted to many end
products.

     We have developed advanced lens technology for several applications and
hold key patents on low cost, high performance lens technology for microdisplay
applications. Our lens technology permits our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays to
provide large field of view images that can be viewed for extended periods with
reduced eye-fatigue.

     We intend to sell Microviewer(TM) modules to OEMs for integration with
their branded products, or incorporated into eGlass(TM) Personal Viewer(TM)
head-wearable displays to be supplied by our subsidiary, Virtual Vision, Inc.
Some of our potential customers have stated a preference for Microviewers(TM)
over microdisplays since Microviewers(TM) incorporate lenses which save OEMs a
step in their manufacturing process and can save them the long time required to
develop a high performance lens system.

     (3) eGlass(TM) Personal Viewer(TM) Head-Wearable Systems

     Personal Viewer(TM) head-wearable systems, such as our eGlass(TM) Personal
Viewer(TM), give users the ability to work with their hands while simultaneously
viewing information or video on the display. Our head-wearable displays enable
more versatile portable computing, capable of delivering an image that appears
comparable to that of a 19-inch monitor at 22 to 24 inches from the eye using a
0.59-inch diagonal microdisplay (SVGA-3D). We believe that Personal Viewer
head-wearable displays will fill the increasing demand for instant data
accessibility in mobile workplaces. We expect to sell the head-wearable displays
primarily to OEM systems and equipment customers through direct sales and our
e-commerce website which is under development.

     We believe that our strategy of offering our products both as separate
components and as integrated bundles that include microdisplays and lenses will
allow us to address the needs of the largest number of potential customers.

Prior Product and Technology Awards

o        Dual Use Technology Achievement Award

     March 2002. eMagin and the US Air Force Armstrong Laboratory received first
place for the US Air Force and was recognized as one of the best dual use
technologies in 2001 recognition across all branches of the Armed Services for
the Second Annual Dual Use Science and Technology Achievement Award awarded by
the Deputy Under Secretary for Defense, Charles J. Holland. The award recognizes

                                       8
<PAGE>
the best dual use programs and honors those responsible for developing and
implementing technology beneficial to both military and commercial sectors.

o        2001 Product of the Year

     January 17, 2001. eMagin received a 2001 Product-of-the-Year Award from
Electronic Products Magazine, honoring eMagin for the development of its
first-of-class high-resolution active matrix OLED-on-silicon microdisplay, based
on significant advances in technology.

o        2001 U.S. Army Phase II Quality Award

     August 21, 2001. eMagin received a 2001 US Army SBIR (Small Business
Innovation Research) Phase II Quality Award for the development of
high-resolution active matrix OLED microdisplays for incorporation into military
head-mounted displays. The annual Quality Awards Program recognizes top quality
Army Phase II projects for their technical achievement, contribution to the Army
and potential for commercial use. Selected by a distinguished panel of Army and
industry experts, eMagin's project was among only five selected to receive a
2001 U.S. Army SBIR Phase II Quality Award through the rigorous Quality Awards
competition.

o        Display of the Year 2000 Gold Award

     June 6, 2001. eMagin was honored by The Information Display Magazine and
Society Information Display with the Display of the Year Gold Award for its
OLED-on-Silicon microdisplay. The Display of the Year Award was established in
1995 to recognize outstanding products chosen for their innovation and potential
impact on current and future display markets. An international committee of
distinguished display technologists and leading editors in a four-month process
of nominations and voting made the selection.

Our Market Opportunity

     The growth potential of our selected target market segments have been
investigated using information gathered from key industry market research firms,
including Display Search, Frost and Sullivan, Fuji-Chimera, International Data
Corporation, Nikkei, SEMI, Stanford Resources-iSuppli and others. Such data was
obtained using published reports and data obtained at industry symposia. We have
also relied substantially on market projections obtained privately from industry
leaders, industry analysts, and potential customers.

     We believe that the consumer oriented, virtual-imaging market is
characterized by about 20 large OEMs that, collectively, dominate 90% of the
market. The non-consumer market consists of niches - industrial, medical,
military, arcade games, 3-D CAD/Virtual Reality, and wearable computers. Within
each of these market sectors, we believe that our microdisplays, when combined
with compact optic lenses, will become a key component for a number of mobile
electronic products. We are targeting the following applications:

(1) Near-Eye Viewers for Digital Cameras, Camcorders and Hand-held Internet
and Telecommunications Appliances

     We believe that our microdisplays will enhance near-eye applications in the
following groups of products:

o    Digital cameras and camcorders, which typically use direct view
     displays at low resolution, offer a small visual image, and are difficult
     to see on sunny days. According to Display Search, 41 million digital
     cameras and 13 million camcorders are expected to be sold in 2005. Some of
     these products may incorporate microdisplays as high-resolution viewfinders
     which would permit individuals to see enlarged, high-resolution proofs
     immediately upon taking the picture, giving them the opportunity to retake
     a poor shot.

o    Mobile phones and other hand-held Internet and telecommunications
     appliances which will enable users to access full web and fax pages, data
     lists and maps in a pocket-sized device. According to the Fuji Chimera
     Research Institute, an industry market research organization, by 2005 the
     cellular phone and handheld portable digital assistant markets will grow to
     655 million units and 20 million units, respectively. Some of these
     products may eventually incorporate our microdisplays. In order for the
     high-resolution wireless telecommunications market to develop, Generation 3
     (G3) high-speed data transmission must become widely available. The current
     cost and limited availability of broadband services has impeded the
     development of this market, but several telecommunication companies have
     prototype programs in progress which incorporate our microdisplay products.

                                       9
<PAGE>
     For each of these applications, we anticipate that our microdisplays,
combined with compact optic lenses, will offer higher resolution, lower power
and system cost and achieve larger images than are currently available in the
consumer market. As a result, we believe that we can obtain a sizeable share of
the market for the display components of these mobile electronic products.

(2) Head-wearable Display Platforms

     Head-wearable displays incorporate microdisplays mounted in or on
eyeglasses, goggles, simple headbands, helmets, or hardhats, and are often
referred to as HMDs or headsets. Head-wearable displays may block out
surroundings for a fully immersive experience, or be designed as "see-through"
or "see-around" to the user's surroundings. They may contain one (monocular) or
two (binocular) displays. Some of the increased current interest is due to
accelerating the timetable to adapt such systems to military applications such
as night vision and fire and rescue applications. These have military,
commercial, and consumer applications.

     Military

     Military demand for head-wearable displays is currently being met with
microdisplay technologies that we believe to be inferior to our OLED-on-silicon
products. The new generation of soldiers will be highly mobile, and will often
need to carry highly computerized communications and surveillance equipment. To
enable interaction with the digital battlespace, rugged, yet lightweight and
energy efficient technology is required. Currently available microdisplay
technologies do not meet the requirements for low power, hands-free, day and
night-viewable displays. Our OLED microdisplays demonstrate performance
characteristics important to military and other demanding commercial and
industrial applications including high brightness and resolution, wide dimming
range, wider temperature operating ranges, shock and vibration resistance and
insensitivity to high G-forces. The image does not suffer from flicker or color
breakup in vibrating environments, and the microdisplay's wide viewing angle
allows ease of viewing for long periods of time. The OLED's very low power
consumption reduces battery weight and increases allowed mission length.
Properly implemented, we believe that head-mounted systems incorporating our
microdisplays will increase effectiveness by allowing hands-free operation and
increasing situational awareness with enough brightness to be used in daylight,
yet controllable for nighttime light security. The OLED's wide temperature range
is especially of interest for military applications because the display can turn
on instantly at temperatures far below freezing and can operate at very high
temperatures in desert conditions.

     Our OLED microdisplays were selected for several aircraft vehicles and
soldier applications, including the US Army Land Warrior 1.0 and 2.0 programs
and the US Air Force Joint Strike Fighter, among others. Land Warrior, a core
program in the Army's drive to digitize the battlefield, is an integrated
digital system that incorporates computerized communication, navigation,
targeting and protection systems for use by the twenty-first century infantry
soldier. Kaiser Electro-Optics, a Rockwell Collins company and the principal
contractor for the US Army's Land Warrior HMD system, and eMagin will apply
their respective expertise in HMD and imaging technology to develop rugged, yet
lightweight and energy efficient products meeting the requirements of tomorrow's
soldier. The US Army expects to initially equip more than 40,000 soldiers with
the Land Warrior system. The current overall redesign of the Land Warrior system
has delayed increased volume use of displays in that program until 2004. Our
display is also used in Kaiser Electro-Optics, Inc.'s commercially available
ProView S035 Monocular HMD. The US Air Force has selected our OLED microdisplay
technology for incorporation into the Strike Helmet 21 system that uses
Integrated Panoramic Night Vision Goggles (IPNVG) in avionics helmets. The
Strike Helmet 21 system is targeted for integration into F-15E aircraft in the
2003-2004 time period. Similar systems are of interest for other military
applications as well as for related operations such as fire and rescue.

     Commercial Industrial, and Medical

     We believe that a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets offer
significant opportunities due to increasing demand for instant data
accessibility in mobile workplaces. Some examples of microdisplay applications
include: immediate access to inventory (parts, tools and equipment
availability); instant accessibility to maintenance or construction manuals;
routine quality assurance inspection; and real-time viewing of images and data.
Commercial products in these sectors include Sage Technologies, Ltd.'s Helmet
Vue (TM) Thermal Imaging System and an upcoming accessory to Antelope
Technolgies' MCC Wearable Computing system, which incorporates IBM's wearable PC
technology.

                                       10
<PAGE>
     Consumer

     We believe that our head-wearable display products will enhance the
following consumer products:

o    Entertainment and gaming video headset systems, which permit
     individuals to view television (including HDTV), video CDs, DVDs and video
     games on virtual large screens or stereovision in private without
     disturbing others. Even though entertainment and gaming headsets represent
     an emerging product class, we are seeing demand from OEMs. Headset game
     systems for portable computers with head tracking and/or stereovision
     appears to be our predominant high quantity near term market opportunity,
     with several customers indicating an interest in large production
     quantities of our displays. Our current SVGA-3D display was designed
     specifically for this market. We believe that these new headset game
     systems can provide a game or telepresence experience not otherwise
     practical using conventional direct view display technology. We expect low
     cost to be important for success in this field, and expect our product cost
     to decrease in high quantity production.

o    Notebook computers, which can use head-wearable devices to reduce
     power as well as expand the apparent screen size and increase privacy.
     Current notebook computers do not use microdisplays. Our products can apply
     not only to new models of notebook computers, but also as aftermarket
     attachments to older notebooks still in use. We expect to market our
     head-wearable displays to be used as plug-in peripherals to be compatible
     with most notebook computers. We believe that the SVGA-3D microdisplay is
     well suited for most portable PC headsets. Our microdisplays can be
     operated using the USB power source of most portable computers. This
     eliminates added power supplies, batteries, and rechargers and reduces
     system complexity and cost.

o    Handheld personal computers, whose small, direct view screens are
     often limitations, but which are now capable of running software
     applications that would benefit from a larger display. Microdisplays can be
     built into handheld computers to display more information content on
     virtual screens without forfeiting portability or adding the cost a larger
     direct view screen. Microdisplays are not currently used in this market. We
     believe that GPS viewers and other novel products are likely to develop as
     our displays become more available.

o    Highly compact wearable computers and personal digital assistants
     (PDAs) using video headsets as screens can be made possible by
     high-resolution microdisplays. A lightweight (under one pound) pocketsize
     computer can potentially be created with a foldout keyboard, compact input
     device, or voice actuation and a headset that provides a near-desktop
     personal computer experience.

     The combination of power efficiency, high resolution, low systems cost,
brightness and compact size offered by our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays has not
been made available to makers and integrators of existing entertainment and
gaming video headset systems, notebook computers and handheld computers. We
believe that our microdisplays will catalyze the growth of new products and
applications such as lightweight wearable computer systems.

                     Selected Applications by Market Sector
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

     ----------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
         Sector                          Representative Applications
     ----------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>      <C>
     Portable Computer Peripheral        |X|      Notebook and SuperSubnotebook computer headsets
                                         |X|      Miniature data viewers
     ----------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Entertainment                       |X|      Games
                                         |X|      Headset Television/DVDs
     ----------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Industrial, Medical, &              |X|      Surgery and Dentistry
     Administration                      |X|      Industrial Control and Safety
                                         |X|      Emergency Services
                                         |X|      Inventory and Retail

                                       11
<PAGE>
                                         |X|      Institutional Control
                                         |X|      Maintenance (Industry & Consumer)
                                         |X|      Communications
                                         |X|      Finance
                                         |X|      Education and Training
     ----------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Military                            |X|      Communications
                                         |X|      Targeting and Enhanced Vision
                                         |X|      Handheld & Headmount Equipment
                                         |X|      Body worn displays
                                         |X|      Avionics (Helmet mount)
                                         |X|      Ground and Water Vehicles
                                         |X|      Maintenance & Training
                                         |X|      Special Applications
     ----------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Telecommunications, Handheld, and   |X|      Cell Phones/Headset phones
     Small Instruments                   |X|      Handheld & Portable Internet Viewers
                                         |X|      Smart Appliances & Instruments
     ----------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Advanced Computer                   |X|      CAD/CAM
     Applications                        |X|      Virtual Reality and Simulations
                                         |X|      Ultra-High Resolution
     ----------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Our Strategy

     Our strategy is to establish and maintain a leadership position as a
worldwide supplier of microdisplays and virtual imaging technology solutions for
applications in high growth segments of the electronics industry by capitalizing
on our leadership in both OLED-on-silicon technology and microdisplay lens
technology. We aim to provide microdisplay and complimentary accessories to
enable OEM customers to develop and manufacture new and enhanced electronic
products. Some key elements of our strategy to achieve these objectives include
the following:

     Leverage our superior technology to establish a leading market position. As
the first to exploit OLED-on-silicon microdisplays, we believe that we enjoy a
significant advantage in bringing this technology to market.

     Develop products for large consumer markets via key relationships with
OEMs. Our relationships with OEMs whose products use microdisplays have allowed
us to identify initial microdisplay products to be produced for entertainment,
industrial, and military headsets, to be followed by other applications such as
digital cameras, camcorders and hand-held Internet and telecommunications
appliances. We target markets which we believe to have long-term growth
potential.

     Reduce production costs. We intend to reduce our production costs by
lowering our fixed costs and improving our manufacturing yields.

     Optimize manufacturing efficiencies by outsourcing while protecting
proprietary processes. We intend to outsource certain capital-intensive portions
of microdisplay production, such as chip fabrication, to minimize both our costs
and time to market. We intend to retain the OLED application and OLED sealing
processes in-house. We believe that these areas are where we have a core
competency and manufacturing expertise. We also believe that by keeping these
processes under tight control we can better protect our proprietary technology
and process know-how. This strategy will also enhance our ability to continue to
optimize and customize processes and devices to meet customer needs. By
performing the processes in-house we can continue to directly make improvements
in the processes which will improve device performance. We also retain the
ability to customize certain aspects such as chromaticity (color balance),
specialized boards or interfaces, and adjust other parameters at the customer's
request. In the area of lenses and head-wearable displays, we intend to focus on
design and development, while working with third parties for the manufacture and
distribution of finished products. We intend to prototype new optical systems,
provide customization of optical systems, and manufacture limited volumes at our
subsidiary, Virtual Vision, but intend to outsource high volume manufacturing
operations. There are numerous potential plastics, PC Board, and assembly
service companies globally that provide these outsource services.

                                       12
<PAGE>
     Build and maintain strong internal design capabilities. As more circuitry
is added to OLED-on-silicon devices, the cost of the end product using the
display can be decreased; therefore integrated circuit design capability will
become increasingly important to us. To meet these requirements, we intend to
develop in-house design capabilities. Building and maintaining this capacity
will allow us to reduce engineering costs, accelerate the design process and
enhance design accuracy to respond to our customers' needs as new markets
develop. In addition, we intend to maintain a product design staff capable of
rapidly developing prototype products for our customers and strategic partners.
Contracting third party design support to meet demand and for specialized design
skills will also remain a part of our overall long term strategy.

Our Strategic Relationships

     Strategic relationships have been an important part of our research and
development efforts to date and are an integral part of our plans for commercial
product launch. We have forged strategic relationships with major OEMs and
strategic suppliers. We believe that strategic relationships allow us to better
determine the demands of the marketplace and, as a result, allow us to focus our
future research and development activities to better meet our customer's
requirements. Moreover, we expect to provide microdisplays and Microviewers(TM)
to some of these partners, thereby taking advantage of established distribution
channels for our products.

     Eastman Kodak is a technology partner in OLED development, OLED materials,
and a potential future customer for both specialty market display systems and
consumer market microdisplays. We license Eastman Kodak's OLED and optics
technology portfolio. We have a nonexclusive, perpetual, worldwide license to
use Eastman Kodak patented OLED technology and associated intellectual property
in the development, use, manufacture, import and sale of microdisplays. The
license covers emissive active matrix microdisplays with a diagonal size of less
than 2 inches for all OLED display technology previously developed by Kodak. An
annual minimum royalty is paid at the beginning of each calendar year and is
fully creditable against the royalties we are obligated to pay based on net
sales throughout the year. Eastman Kodak and eMagin have engaged in numerous
discussions regarding potential product applications for eMagin's microdisplays
by Eastman Kodak.

     We are working in cooperation with the US Air Force, Ball Aerospace, ITT,
and Kaiser Electro-optics (a subsidiary of Rockwell Collins) to complete
development and characterization of our high brightness SXGA microdisplay.

     We have recently announced the execution of an agreement with a major
manufacturing partner to develop two new products: an enhanced version of our
SVGA-3D microdisplay with new imbedded features for consumer head-mounted
displays and high resolution games, and a new QVGA and/or VGA viewfinder
microdisplay for camcorder and digital cameras, web phones, and low end games.

     We are a member of the United States Display Consortium, a cooperative
agency of display and related technology manufacturers whose charter is to
support continued progress of the display industry. We intend to continue to
establish additional strategic relationships in the future.

Our Technology Platforms

     OLED-on-Silicon Technology

     Scientists working at Eastman Kodak invented OLEDs in the early 1980s.
OLEDs are thin films of stable organic materials that emit light of various
colors when a voltage is impressed across them. OLEDs are emissive devices,
which means they create their own light, as opposed to liquid crystal displays,
which require a separate light source. As a result, OLED devices use less power
and can be capable of higher brightness and fuller color than liquid crystal
microdisplays. Because the light they emit is Lambertian, which means that it
appears equally bright from most forward directions, a moderate movement in the
eye does not change the image brightness or color as it does in existing

                                       13
<PAGE>
technologies. OLED films may be coated on computer chips, permitting millions of
individual low-voltage light sources to be built on silicon integrated circuits
to produce single color, white, or full-color display arrays. Many computer and
video electronic system functions can be built directly into a silicon
integrated circuit as part of the OLED display, resulting in an ultra-compact
system. We believe these features, together with the well-established silicon
integrated circuit fabrication technology of the semiconductor industry, make
our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays attractive for numerous applications.

     We believe our technology licensing agreement with Eastman Kodak, coupled
with our own intellectual property portfolio, gives us a leadership position in
OLED and OLED-on-silicon microdisplay technology. Eastman Kodak provides OLED
technology and we provide additional technology advancements that have enabled
us to coat the silicon integrated circuits with OLEDs.

     We have developed numerous and significant enhancements to OLED technology
as well as key silicon circuit designs to effectively incorporate the OLED film
on a silicon integrated circuit. For example, we have developed a unique,
up-emitting structure for our OLED-on-silicon devices that enables OLED displays
to be built on opaque silicon integrated circuits rather than only on glass. Our
OLED devices can emit full visible spectrum light that can be isolated with
color filters to create full color images. Our microdisplay prototypes have a
brightness that can be greater than that of a typical notebook computer and can
have a potential useful life of over 50,000 operating hours, in certain
applications. New materials and device improvements in development offer future
potential for even better performance for brightness, efficiency, and lifespan.
Additionally, we have invested considerable work over several years to develop
unique electronics control and drive designs for OLED-on-silicon microdisplays.

     In addition to our OLED-on-silicon technology, we have developed compact
optic and lens enhancements which, when coupled with the microdisplay, provide
the high quality large screen appearance that we believe a large proportion of
the marketplace demands.

     Advantages of OLED Technology

     We believe that our OLED-on-silicon technology provides significant
advantages over existing solutions in our targeted microdisplay markets. We
believe these key advantages will include:

o        Low manufacturing cost;

o        Low cost system solutions;

o        Wide angle light emission resulting in large apparent screen size;

o        Low power consumption for improved battery life and longer system life;

o        High brightness for improved viewing;

o        High-speed performance resulting in clear video images;

o        Wide operating temperature range; and

o         Good environmental stability (vibration and humidity).

     Low manufacturing cost. Many OLED-on-silicon microdisplays can be built on
an 8-inch silicon wafer using existing automated OLED and color filter
processing tools. The level of automation used lowers labor costs. Only a minute
amount of OLED material is used in each OLED-on-silicon microdisplay so that
material costs, other than the integrated circuit itself, are small. The number
of displays per silicon wafer may be higher on OLEDs than on liquid crystal
displays (LCDs) because OLEDs do not require a space-wasting perimeter seal
band.

     Low cost systems solutions. In general, an OEM using OLED-on-silicon
microdisplays will not need to purchase and incorporate lighting assemblies,
color converter related Applications Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), or
beam splitter lenses as is the case in liquid crystal microdisplays, which also
require illumination. Many important display-related system functions can be

                                       14
<PAGE>
incorporated into an OLED-on-silicon microdisplay, reducing the size and cost of
the system. Non-polarized light from OLEDs permit lenses for many
OLED-on-silicon applications that are made of a single piece of molded plastic,
which reduces size, weight and assembly cost when compared to the multipiece
lens systems used for liquid crystal microdisplays. System cost relative to
liquid crystal and liquid crystal on silicon (LCOS) competitive products is thus
reduced. Because our displays are power efficient, they typically require less
power at the system level than other display technologies at a given display
size and brightness.

Wide-angle light emission simplifies optics for large apparent screen size.
OLEDs emit light at most forward directions from each pixel. This permits the
display to be placed close to the lens in compact optical systems. It also
provides the added benefit of less angular dependence on the image quality
relative to pupil and eye position when showing a large field of view, unlike
reflective LCOS microdisplays. This results in less eye fatigue and makes it
relatively easy to Low power consumption for improved battery life and longer
system life. OLEDs emit light rather than transmitting it, so no power-consuming
backlight or frontlight, as required for liquid crystal displays, is required.
OLEDs can be energy efficient because of their high efficiency light generation.
Furthermore, OLEDs conserve power by powering only those pixels that are on
while liquid crystal on silicon requires light at all pixels all the time. Most
optical systems used for our OLEDs are highly efficient, permitting over 80% of
the light to reach the eye, whereas reflective technologies such as liquid
crystal on silicon require multiple beam splitters to get light to the display,
and then into the optical system. This results in typically less than 25% light
throughput efficiency in reflective microdisplay systems. Most important, we do
not need a power-hungry video frame buffer, as required in liquid crystal
frame-sequential color systems. Battery life can therefore be long.

     High brightness for improved viewing. This feature can be of great value to
military applications, where there is a need to see the computer image overlaid
onto brightly lit real-life backgrounds such as desert sand, water reflections
or sunlit clouds. The OLED can be operated over a large luminance range without
loss of gray level control, permitting the displays to be used in a range of
dark environments to very bright ambient applications. Since military simulation
and situation awareness applications, including night vision, typically require
large fields of view, the OLED's Lambertian optical characteristics make it an
excellent choice.

     High-speed performance resulting in clear video images. The OLEDs switch
much more rapidly than liquid crystals or most cathode ray tubes (CRTs). This
results in smear-free video rate imagery and provides improved image quality for
DVD playback applications. This eliminates visible image smear and makes
practicable three-dimensional stereo imaging using a split frame rate. This
advantage of our OLED-on-silicon is very important for 3-D stereovision gaming
applications.

     Flicker-free; no color breakup. Because the OLED-on-silicon stores
brightness and color information at each pixel, the display can be run with no
noticeable flicker and no color sequential breakup, even at low refresh rates. A
lower refresh rate not only helps reduce power, it also facilitates system
integration. Color sequential breakup occurs in systems such as liquid crystal
on silicon and some liquid crystal display microdisplays when red, green and
blue frames are sequentially imaged in time for the eye to combine. Since the
different color screens occur at different times, movement of the eye due to
vibration or just fast pupil movement can create color bands at each dark-light
edge, making the image unpleasant to view and making text difficult to read. For
example, the liquid crystal on silicon display needs to run at least three times
the "normal" frame rate or speed to produce color sequential images, which
wastes power and makes for a difficult technological challenge as display
resolutions increase.

     Wide operating temperature range. Our OLEDs offer much less temperature
sensitivity at both high and low temperatures than LCDs. LCDs are sluggish or
non-operative much below freezing unless heaters are added and lose contrast
above 50 (degree)C, while our OLEDs turn on instantly and can operate between
-55 (degree)C and 130 (degree)C. We specify a smaller range on most products to
accommodate low cost packaging. This is an important characteristic for many
portable products that may be used outdoors in many varying environmental
conditions. It is especially important for military customers. Insensitivity to
vibration, shock, and pressure are also important environmental control
attributes.

                                       15
<PAGE>
     Complementary Lens and System Technology

     We have developed a wide range of technologies which complement our core
OLED and lens technologies and which will enhance our competitive position in
the microdisplay and head-wearable display markets. These include:

     Lens technology: We have developed advanced lens technology for
microdisplays and head-wearable display systems and hold key patents in these
areas. Our lens technology permits our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays to provide
large field of view images that can be viewed for extended periods with reduced
eye-fatigue. During 2003, we plan to outsource manufacturing of our lenses in
order to provide them in larger quantities to our customers.

     We believe that the key advantages of our lens technology include:

o    Can be very low cost, with minimal assembly. A one piece, molded
     plastic optic attached to the microdisplay can serve many consumer
     end-product markets. Since our process is plastic molding, our per unit
     production costs are low;

o    Allows a compact and lightweight lens system that can greatly magnify
     a microdisplay to produce a large field of view;

o    Can use single-piece molded microdisplay lenses to permit high light
     throughput making the display image brighter or permitting the use of less
     power for an acceptable brightness;

o    Can be designed to provide focusing to enable users with various
     eyesight qualities to view images clearly; and

o    Can optionally provide focal plane adjustment for simultaneous
     focusing of computer images and real world objects. For example, this
     characteristic is beneficial for word processing or spreadsheet
     applications where a person is typing data in from reference material. This
     feature can make it easier for people with moderately poor accommodation to
     use a head-wearable display as a portable computer-viewing accessory.

     Head-wearable display technology. We have developed ergonomic technologies
that make head-wearable displays easier to use in a wide variety of
applications. For example, the use of our patented rotatable Eyeblocker(TM)
provides a sharp image without requiring most users to squint. The Eyeblocker
can also be moved to create an effective see-through appearance. To our
knowledge, we have made the lightest weight, high-resolution head-wearable
display with an over 35(Degree) diagonal field of view ever publicly
demonstrated.

     Wireless video technology. We have developed power efficient, miniature,
video and stereo sound, radio frequency transmitter-receiver technology as part
of a government program. This could allow consumers to watch wireless high
quality video from most locations in their home using existing entertainment
(e.g., DVD or cable/satellite systems) or data systems. If commercialized, we
expect this capability to greatly increase the available market and demand for
video and data head-wearable displays and we are considering this technology for
use in low cost consumer applications. Commercialization of this technology will
be considered in the future.

Sales and Marketing

     Current Status

     We are now shipping monochrome and full color versions of our first two
commercial microdisplay products. Our SVGA+ resolution OLED microdisplay (1.53
million picture elements) was specifically designed to meet the needs of several
military, industrial, and medical customers based on marketing information
obtained prior to the design phase of the display and was first offered for
sampling in April 2001. Our stereovision-capable SVGA-3D microdisplay (1.44
million picture elements) was designed with the input of multiple customers to

                                       16
<PAGE>
principally target the mobile personal computer (PC) and PC games markets, and
was first shipped in February 2002. We are currently developing a military and
industrial oriented ultra-high-luminance SXGA resolution integrated circuit (3.9
million picture elements) that is due for completion in 2003, and we have
shipped limited quantities of prototypes of our eGlass headsets. (See "Our
Products")

     Near term sales efforts have been focused on our military, industrial, and
medical customers. Our primary production orders and design wins to date have
been for the SVGA+ display. To date, we have shipped products and evaluation
kits to more than 70 OEM customers. OEM evaluation and product design cycles may
take from 6 months to 24 months. Some of our initial customers have completed
their initial evaluation cycle and we are now receiving follow-on orders and
notification of product purchase decisions. Several customers have indicated
their intent to incorporate potentially high volumes of our microdisplays into
consumer products during 2002 through 2004. We have also received notification
that our microdisplays will be used as components in versions 1.0 and 2.0 of the
US Army Land Warrior program and in the US Air Force Joint Strike Fighter
program, among other programs.

     General Sales and Marketing Effort

     We primarily provide display components and Microviewer(TM) display-optic
modules for OEMs to incorporate into their branded products and sell through
their well-established distribution channels. In addition, we market
head-wearable displays directly to various vertical market channels, such as
medical, industrial, and government customers. A typical buyer is a manufacturer
of a product requiring a specific resolution of visual display or viewfinder for
insertion into a product such as a portable DVD headset, a PC-gaming headset, or
an instrument.

     As a market-driven company, we assess customer needs both quantitatively
and qualitatively, through market research and direct communications. Because
our microdisplays are the main functional component that defines many of our
customers' end products, we work closely with potential customers to define our
products to optimize the final design, typically on a senior
engineer-to-engineer basis.

     We identify companies with end products and applications for which we
believe that our products will provide a system level solution and for which our
products can be a key differentiator. We target both market leaders and select
early adopter companies; their acceptance validates our technology and approach
in the market. We believe successful marketing will require relationships with
recognized consumer brand companies.

     OEMs develop designs to enable them to develop products for their own
target markets. An OEM design cycle typically requires between 6 and 24 months,
depending on the uniqueness of the market and the complexity of the end product.
New product development may require several design iterations prior to
commercialization.

Customers

The Company sells products to a large number of customers, which are
primarily in the United States. The Company's customer base includes 2 customers
who account for 32%, 6% and 0% of sales in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. One customer represented 18%, 6% and 0% and the other customer
represented 14%, 0% and 0% of sales in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000. Although the
Company is directly affected by the well-being of these customers, management
does not believe significant credit risk exists at December 31, 2002.

Backlog

As of December 31, 2002 we had a backlog of purchase agreements of
approximately $10 million and by March 31, 2003 the number had grown to
approximately $27 million. Our backlog consists of both purchase agreements for
delivery over the next 24 months and short-term purchase orders for delivery
within 3-6 months. Most orders are subject to cancellation by the customer with

                                       17
<PAGE>
no or limited penalties. Because of the possibility of customer changes in
delivery schedules or cancellations and potential delays in product shipment,
our backlog as of a particular date may not be indicative of net revenue for any
specific succeeding period. Lack of working capital has delayed our ability to
ship the full quantity of purchase agreements and purchase orders on hand, and
has required negotiations with customers for delays in product launch schedules.

Research and Development

     OLED technology is a relatively new technology that has considerable room
for substantial improvements in luminance, life, power efficiency, voltage
swing, design compactness, and many other parameters. We also anticipate that
achieving reductions in manufacturing costs will require new technology
developments. We anticipate that improving the performance, capability and cost
of our products will provide an important competitive advantage in our fast
moving, high technology marketplace. Past and current research activities
include development of improved OLED and display device structures, developing
and/or evaluating new materials (including the synthesis of new organic
molecules), manufacturing equipment and process development, electronics design
methodologies and new circuits and the development of new lenses and related
systems. During 2002 we focused primarily on near-term product development
projects related to our transition from research to manufacturing. For example
we developed a glass cover plate to ruggedize our displays to facilitate easier
handling by our OEM customers. We also developed a new high luminance, high
efficiency yellow monochrome OLED and adapted to our SVGA+ display for
see-through optic applications and began sampling the yellow monochrome product
in early 2003. However, in order to improve customer satisfaction and
simultaneously maximize our margins, as well as to maintain competitive
technology advantages, we believe that it is important to continue to engage in
long-term research and development. During the past four years, we have spent
approximately $32.8 million on research and development. In 2001, we spent
approximately $12.7 million, and in 2002 we spent approximately $7.3 million on
research and development. During the same four-year period, we received $3.6
million in funding from US government under research and development cost
sharing arrangements.

     External relationships play an important role in our research and
development efforts. Suppliers, equipment vendors, government organizations,
contract research groups, external design companies, customer and corporate
partners, consortia, and university relationships all enhance the overall
research and development effort and bring us new ideas (See "Strategic
Relationships").

Manufacturing Facilities

     We are located at IBM's Microelectronics Division facility, known as the
Hudson Valley Research Park, located about 70 miles north of New York City in
Hopewell Junction, New York. We lease approximately 45,000 square feet of space
housing our own equipment for OLED microdisplay fabrication, and for research
and development plus additional space for assembly and administrative offices.
We believe that our lease agreement with IBM for a 16,300 square foot class 10
clean room space, along with additional, lower level clean room space, and the
associated acquisition of substantial amounts of advanced manufacturing
equipment is at a favorable cost, represents a substantial asset and competitive
advantage. At this time, we owe to IBM previously unpaid lease payments which
must be paid in order to maintain our lease. Our lease runs until 2004 and we
have the option to then renew it on the same terms for five additional one-year
terms.

     Facilities services provided by IBM include our cleanroom, pure gases, high
purity de-ionized water, compressed air, chilled water systems, and waste
disposal support. This infrastructure provided by our lease with IBM provides us
with many of the resources of a larger corporation without the added overhead
costs. It further allows us to focus our resources more efficiently on our
product development and manufacturing goals. We believe that our facility is
capable of producing over 50,000 SVGA+ or SVGA-3D displays per month once we are
manufacturing around the clock (24 hour/7-days per week) with a fully loaded
manufacturing line.

     We lease additional non-cleanroom facilities for chemical mixing, cleaning,
chemical systems, and glass/silicon cutting. OLED chemicals can be purified in
our facility with our equipment, permitting the company to evaluate new
chemicals in pilot production that are not yet available in suitable purity for
OLED applications on the market.

     Our display fabrication process starts with the silicon wafer, which is
manufactured by a semiconductor foundry using conventional CMOS process. After a
device is designed by a combination of internal and external designers with
customer participation, we outsource wafer fabrication.

                                       18
<PAGE>
     Our manufacturing process for OLED-on-silicon microdisplays has three main
components: organic film deposition, organic film encapsulation (also known as
sealing), and color filter processing. All steps are performed in
semi-automated, hands-free environment suitable for high volume throughput. An
automated cluster tool provides all OLED deposition steps in a highly controlled
environment that is the centerpiece of our OLED fabrication. After wafer
processing, each part is inspected using an automated inspection system, prior
to shipment. We have electrical and optical instrumentation required to
characterize the performance of our displays including photometric and color
coordinate analysis. We are also equipped for integrated circuit and electronics
design and display testing

     Our system development effort at Virtual Vision operates out of a leased
facility in Redmond, Washington. The facilities are well suited for designing
and building limited volume prototypes and industrial or government products. We
plan to outsource high volume head-wearable display production to low cost
plastics, lenses, and assembly manufacturers, including manufacturers in Asia.

     We believe that manufacturing efficiency is an important factor for success
in the consumer markets. We believe that high yield and maximum utilization of
our equipment set will be key for profitability. We believe that all of the main
components for manufacturing success are in place, but we require additional
capital to: (1) staff and train employees for round the clock operation, (2)
build suitable inventory of integrated circuits and other raw materials, and (3)
properly maintain and continue to upgrade the equipment set. The equipment
required for initial profitable production is in place. Some equipment will be
added when our production volume increases or as needed. We will ramp production
primarily by adding multi-shift staff and increasing inventory.

     We intend to outsource certain capital-intensive portions of microdisplay
production to minimize both our costs and time to market. Joint ventures are
being considered for higher quantity OLED production off shore. We currently
outsource integrated circuit fabrication while retaining the OLED application
and OLED sealing processes in-house.

Intellectual Property

     We have developed a significant intellectual property portfolio of patents,
trade secrets and know-how, supported by our license from Eastman Kodak and our
current patent portfolio.

     Our license from Eastman Kodak gives us the right to use in miniature
displays a portfolio in organic light emitting diode and optics technology, some
of which are fundamental. Our agreement with Eastman Kodak provides for
perpetual access to the OLED technology for our OLED-on-silicon applications,
provided we remain active in the field and meet our contractual requirements to
Eastman Kodak. We also generate intellectual property as a result of our
internal research and development activities.

     Our patents and patent applications cover a wide range of materials, device
structures, processes, and fabrication techniques, such as methods of
fabricating full color OLEDs. We believe that our patent applications relating
to up-emitting structures on opaque substrates such as silicon wafers, which are
critical for OLED microdisplays, and applications relating to the hermetic
sealing of such structures are particularly important.

     Our patents are concentrated in the following areas:

o        OLED Materials, Structures, and Processes
o        Display Color Processing and Sealing
o        Active Matrix Circuit Methodologies and Designs
o        Field Emission and General Display Technologies
o        Lenses and Tracking (Eye and Head)
o        Ergonomics and Industrial Design
o        Wearable Computer Interface Methodology


     We also rely on proprietary technology, trade secrets, and know-how, which
are not patented. To protect our rights in these areas, we require all
employees, and where appropriate, contractors, consultants, advisors and
collaborators to enter into confidentiality and noncompetition agreements. There

                                       19
<PAGE>
can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful
protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in
the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade
secrets, know-how or other proprietary information.

     We believe that our intellectual property portfolio, coupled with our
strategic relationships and accumulated experience in the OLED field gives us an
advantage over potential competitors.

     Competition

     We may face competition in the OLED and microdisplay industry from a
variety of companies and technologies. We believe that our key competition will
come from liquid crystal on silicon microdisplays (LCOS), also known as
reflective liquid crystal displays. While we believe that OLED-on-silicon
provides comparatively lower optics cost, larger apparent image size, reduced
electronics cost and complexity, enhanced color, and improved power efficiency
advantages over liquid crystal on silicon microdisplays, there is no assurance
that these benefits will be realized or that liquid crystal on silicon
manufacturers will not suitably improve these parameters. Companies pursuing
liquid crystal on silicon technology include Microdisplay Corporation and
Three-Five Systems, among others, although most of the companies are primarily
focusing on projection microdisplays, which do not compete directly with the
company. In certain markets, we may also face competition from developers of
transmissive liquid crystal displays, such as those developed by Kopin, or laser
scanning systems, such as those developed by Microvision Corporation.

     To our knowledge, the only other company that has publicly stated plans to
develop OLED microdisplays for near-eye applications is MicroEmissive Displays
(Britain). We may also compete with potential licensees of Universal Display
Corporation, Cambridge Display Corporation, and Uniax Corporation, each of which
license OLED technology portfolios. Even though we could potentially license
technology from these developers, potential competitors could also obtain
licenses and may do so at more favorable royalty rates. However, should they
decide to embark on developing microdisplays on silicon, we believe that our
progress to date in this area gives us a substantial head start.

     Our microdisplays and head-wearable display systems may face competition on
a price and performance basis from major manufacturers such as Sony and Seiko
Epson. However, these companies use first generation liquid crystal on
polysilicon technology and therefore, we believe that they may incorporate our
technology into their products when it becomes available.

Employees

     As of March 31, 2003, we had a total of 18 full time, part time, and
temporary staff plus 4 employees at Virtual Vision. None of our employees are
represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and
consider our relations with our employees to be good.
