Item 1.  Business

Company Overview
----------------

     EMCORE Corporation,  a New Jersey corporation established in 1984, offers a
versatile  portfolio  of  compound  semiconductor  products  for the  broadband,
wireless  communications and solid-state  lighting markets.  EMCORE's integrated
solutions  philosophy  embodies  state-of-the-art  technology,  material science
expertise  and a shared  vision of our  customer's  goals and  objectives  to be
leaders and pioneers in the world of compound semiconductors. EMCORE's solutions
include:  optical components for high-speed data and  telecommunications;  solar
cells and solar panels for global satellite communications; electronic materials
for high bandwidth  communications systems, such as Internet access and wireless
telephones;  metal organic chemical vapor deposition  (MOCVD) production systems
for the growth of GaN, InGaN, AlGaN, GaAs, AlGaAs, InP, InGaP, InGaAlP,  InGaAsP
and SiC epitaxial  materials used in numerous  applications,  including data and
telecommunications modules, cellular telephones, solar cells and high-brightness
light-emitting  diodes (HB-LEDs).  For further  information about EMCORE,  visit
http://www.emcore.com.  The information on EMCORE's web site is not incorporated
by reference into and is not made a part of this report.


Industry Overview
-----------------

     Recent advances in information technologies have created a growing need for
efficient  and  high-performance  electronic  systems  that operate at very high
frequencies,  require increased storage capacity,  have augmented  computational
and display  capabilities  and can be produced  cost-effectively  in  commercial
volumes.  In the  past,  manufacturers  of  electronic  systems  have  relied on
advances  in silicon  semiconductor  technology  to meet many of these  demands;
however,  the new generation of  high-performance  electronic and optoelectronic
applications  require certain  functions that are generally not achievable using
silicon-based components.

     Compound  semiconductors have emerged as an enabling technology to meet the
complex  requirements  of today's  advanced  electronic  systems.  Many compound
semiconductor  materials have unique physical properties that allow electrons to
move at least four times faster through them than through silicon-based devices.
Advantages of compound semiconductor devices over silicon devices include:

          o    higher operating speeds;
          o    lower power consumption;
          o    reduced noise and distortion;
          o    increased tolerance to high temperatures; and
          o    light emitting and detecting optoelectronic properties.

     Compound  semiconductor devices can be used to perform individual functions
as discrete  devices,  such as vertical cavity surface emitting lasers (VCSELs),
photodetectors, solar cells, HB-LEDs, radio frequency (RF) materials, electronic
materials and magneto resistive (MR) sensors. Compound semiconductor devices can
also be combined into integrated circuits,  such as transmitters,  receivers and
alphanumeric  displays.  Although  compound  semiconductors  are generally  more
expensive to manufacture than silicon-based devices,  electronics  manufacturers
are increasingly  integrating compound semiconductor devices into their products
in order to achieve  higher  performance  in  applications  targeted  for a wide
variety  of   markets.   Furthermore,   the  unique   properties   of   compound
semiconductors  enable  a  wide  variety  of  optoelectronic   applications  for
fiber-optic  transmission,  display, and power generation.  The markets targeted
include  data,  satellite  and  wireless   communications,   telecommunications,
lighting, consumer and automotive electronics and computers and peripherals.

                                                                               4

<PAGE>

     The following  factors have driven  electronic  systems'  manufacturers who
require  high-performance  products and  applications to compound  semiconductor
systems and device solutions:

          o    launch of new wireless services and wireless high-speed data
               systems;
          o    replacement  of  electrical   backplanes  with   laser-based
               optical backplanes in data and telecommunication systems;
          o    conversion to more efficient  solar cells in satellite power
               systems;
          o    widespread  deployment  of  fiber  optic  networks  and  the
               increased use of optical systems within these networks;
          o    increased  use of  infrared  emitters  and optical  detectors  in
               computer systems;
          o    emergence of advanced consumer electronics applications such
               as DVDs and flat panel displays;
          o    increased   use  of   high-performance   electronic   devices  in
               automobiles; and
          o    the  conversion  to HB-LEDs from  incandescent,  halogen and
               compact fluorescent lighting.


Compound Semiconductor Process Technology
-----------------------------------------

     Compound  semiconductors  are composed of two or more  elements and usually
consist of a metal,  such as gallium,  aluminum or indium,  and another element,
such as arsenic,  phosphorous,  nitrogen or antimony.  The  resulting  compounds
include gallium arsenide,  indium phosphide,  gallium nitride, indium antimonide
and indium  aluminum  phosphide.  The  performance  characteristics  of compound
semiconductors are dependent on the composition of its compounds.

     Many  of the  unique  properties  of  compound  semiconductor  devices  are
achieved by the layering of different materials in the same device. This layered
structure  creates an optimal  configuration to permit the emission or detection
of light and the detection of magnetic fields. Accordingly,  the composition and
properties  of each layer and the control of the layering  process,  or epitaxy,
are  fundamental to the  performance of advanced  electronic and  optoelectronic
compound  semiconductor  devices.  The variation of thickness and composition of
layers  determines  the intensity and color of the light emitted or detected and
the efficiency of power conversion. The ability to vary the intensity, color and
the efficiency of light generation and detection enables compound  semiconductor
devices to be used in a broad range of advanced information systems.

     Compound   semiconductor  device   manufacturers   predominantly  use  four
different  methods to deposit  compound  materials:  (i) molecular beam epitaxy;
(ii) vapor phase  epitaxy;  (iii)  liquid  phase  epitaxy;  and (iv) MOCVD.  The
production  systems that use these methods typically require expensive  reactant
materials,  use of certain  toxic  chemicals  and tight  control  over  numerous
manufacturing parameters that can pose technical, training and safety challenges
more rigorous than in methods used to manufacture of silicon  devices.  Although
the first three methods can yield wafers having high thickness  uniformity  with
acceptable  electronic  and  optical  properties,  none of these  methods can be
easily  scaled  up to  high  volume  production,  which  is  necessary  for  the
commercial viability of compound semiconductor  devices.  Compound semiconductor
wafers fabricated using the MOCVD method generally possess a better  combination
of uniformity,  optical and  electronic  properties and are easier to produce in
high volumes than wafers  manufactured  by the three more  traditional  methods.
Currently,  MOCVD  technology  is being  used to  manufacture  a broad  range of
compound semiconductor devices.

                                                                               5
<PAGE>

     The following chart summarizes (i) principal  markets for, (ii) examples of
applications  for,  (iii)  some  products  that  incorporate,  and (iv)  certain
benefits  and  characteristics  of compound  semiconductor  devices  produced on
EMCORE's MOVCD production systems:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
         Market              Representative Applications            Products                Benefits/Characteristics
------------------------- ---------------------------------- ------------------------ -------------------------------------
<S>                       <C>                                <C>                      <C>
Satellite                 Power modules for satellites       Solar cells and panels   Radiation tolerance
Communications            Satellite to ground                RF materials             Conversion of more light
                            Communication                                                to power than silicon
                                                                                      Reduced launch costs
                                                                                      Increased bandwidth

Wireless                  Cellular telephones                RF and electronic        Increased network capacity
Communications            Pagers                               Materials              Lower power consumption
                          PCS handsets                       RF and electronic        Reduced network congestion
                          Direct broadcast systems             Devices                Extended battery life
                          PDAs                               HB-LEDs                  Improved signal to noise
                                                                                        performance
                                                                                      Improved display visibility

Data communications       High-speed fiber optic networks    VCSEL components         Increased network capacity
                            And optical links (including       And arrays             Increased data transmission
                            VSR OC-768, OC-192,              Lasers                     speeds
                            OC-48, Gigabit Ethernet,         Photodetector            Increased bandwidth
                            Asynchronous transfer mode         Components and         Lower power consumption
                            or ATM, and Fibre Channel          Arrays
                            networks)                        RF and electronic
                                                               Materials
                                                             Array transceivers
                                                             Serial transceivers
                                                             HB-LEDs

Telecommunications        High capacity fiber optic trunk    VCSEL components         Increased data transmission
                            Lines                              And arrays               speeds
                          Very Short Reach (VSR) links       Lasers                   Increased bandwidth
                                                             RF materials
                                                             Photodiode
                                                               Components and
                                                               Arrays
                                                             Array transceivers
                                                             VSR transponders

Lighting                  Flat panel displays                HB-LEDs                  Lower power consumption
                          Solid state lighting               Miniature lamps          Lower temperature operation
                          Outdoor signage and displays                                Longer life
                          Digital readout signals
                          Traffic signals
                          Illumination applications

Consumer electronics      DVDs                               VCSEL components         High-speed data transmission
                          CD-ROMs                              And arrays             Low power requirements
                          Telephones                         Integrated circuits      Improved display visibility
                          Radios                             Lasers
                          Calculators                        HB-LEDs

Automotive electronics    Engine sensors                     MR sensors               Reduced weight
                          Dashboard displays                 HB-LEDs                  Lower power consumption
                          Indicator lights                                            Increased heat tolerance
                          Antilock brake systems                                      Lower emissions

Computers and             Local area networks                VCSEL components         Increased data transmission speeds
Peripherals               Chip-to-chip and board-to-board      And arrays             Increased bandwidth
                            optical links                    Serial transceivers
                          Computer buses (Infiniband)        Array transceivers
</TABLE>

                                                                              6

<PAGE>

The EMCORE Solution
-------------------

     EMCORE  provides  a broad  range of  compound  semiconductor  products  and
services  intended  to meet  its  customers'  diverse  technology  requirements.
Founded in 1984,  EMCORE  pioneered the  development of a complete line of MOCVD
production  systems  and is  currently  the  industry's  only  fully  integrated
commercial supplier of the complete spectrum of compound semiconductor products.
EMCORE combines materials science expertise and process engineering  aptitude to
provide MOCVD  production  systems,  epitaxial  wafers,  package-ready  devices,
packaged VCSELs and fiber optic modules to customers around the world.

     EMCORE has two reportable operating segments: the systems-related  business
and  the  materials-related   business.  The  systems-related  business  is  our
TurboDisc(R)  MOCVD  product  line,  which  designs,  develops and  manufactures
systems and manufacturing  processes.  Revenues for the systems-related business
are derived primarily  from sales of TurboDisc  systems, as well as spare parts,
services and related products.  The  materials-related  business is comprised of
our Photovoltaics,  Optical Devices and Components and Electronic  Materials and
Devices product lines. Revenues for the  materials-related  business are derived
primarily from the sales of solar cell products  (including  epitaxial  material
(epi), cells,  covered  interconnect solar cells (CICs) and panels),  VCSELs and
VCSEL-based   transceiver  and  transponder  modules,  RF  materials  (including
heterojunction  bipolar  transistors (HBTs) and  enhancement-mode  pseudomorphic
high electron mobility transistors (pHEMTS)), MR sensors and process development
technology.  The segments reported are the segments of EMCORE for which separate
financial  information  is available  and are  evaluated  regularly by executive
management in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.

     EMCORE's compound semiconductor product lines include:

     o    TurboDisc(R)MOCVD  - EMCORE develops and  manufactures  advanced MOCVD
          production systems and engineers and designs  next-generation  systems
          to improve efficiency and lower production costs.  Through 18 years of
          development  and  manufacturing   experience,   EMCORE  has  developed
          extensive  materials science,  process technology and MOCVD production
          system  manufacturing  expertise to address its  customers'  needs and
          believes that its proprietary  TurboDisc  deposition  technology makes
          possible one of the most cost-effective  production  processes for the
          commercial   volume   manufacture   of    high-performance    compound
          semiconductor  materials  and devices.  This  technology  coupled with
          EMCORE's  process  expertise,  provides  the  production  platform for
          various  types of  compound  semiconductor  materials  and devices and
          enables  EMCORE to  address  the  critical  need of  manufacturers  to
          cost-effectively get to the market faster with high volumes of new and
          improved  high-performance  products.  Customers can take advantage of
          EMCORE's vertically integrated approach by purchasing  custom-designed
          materials and devices from EMCORE,  or they can manufacture  their own
          products in-house using a TurboDisc MOCVD production system configured
          to their specific needs.

     o    Photovoltaics   -  EMCORE   manufactures   advanced   high-efficiency,
          multijunction solar cells, CICs and solar panels.  With smaller,  more
          efficient power generation, EMCORE's photovoltaic products help enable
          satellite weight reduction,  wing area reduction,  improved  radiation
          tolerance  and  higher  light to  power  conversion,  which  increases
          payload capacity and economic return.

     o    Optical  Devices and  Components  - EMCORE  designs  and  manufactures
          VCSELs  which  provide   enhanced   performance   benefits  to  market
          applications  such as  Internet  access,  onboard  photonics,  Gigabit
          Ethernet  and fiber  optic  switching,  as well as Fibre  Channel  and
          storage area network (SAN) applications. EMCORE also designs, develops
          and manufactures  high-speed  optical  transmitter  modules,  receiver
          modules  and  transponders.  EMCORE's  line of VCSEL and PIN (the "P",
          "I",  "N"  represent  P-type,   intrinsic  and  n-type   semiconductor
          materials,  respectively)  photodiode-based parallel optic modules are
          designed for high speed optical networking applications, including VSR
          OC-192  interconnection and high-speed optical backplanes used in data
          switching and routing.

     o    Electronic  Materials and Devices - Using TurboDisc  MOCVD  production
          systems,  EMCORE manufactures  electronic materials,  including pHEMTs
          and HBTs for wireless communication  instruments,  and devices such as
          MR sensors.  Materials  and devices are produced on a foundry basis in
          partnership with specific  customers  according to their  requirements
          and under strict confidentiality.

                                                                               7
<PAGE>

     In January  1999,  General  Electric  Lighting  and EMCORE  formed  GELcore
(GELcore),  a joint  venture to develop  and market  HB-LED  lighting  products.
HB-LEDs are solid state compound  semiconductor  devices that emit light and are
used in miniature packages for everyday applications such as indicator lights on
automobiles,  traffic lights, computers and other electronic equipment.  General
Electric  Lighting  and EMCORE have agreed that this joint  venture  will be the
exclusive vehicle for each party's participation in solid state lighting.  Under
the terms of the  joint  venture  agreement,  EMCORE  has a 49%  non-controlling
interest in the GELcore venture and accounts for its investment under the equity
method of accounting.

     See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations for information on EMCORE's  financial  results by segment
and product line revenues.


EMCORE's Strategy
-----------------

     EMCORE's objective is to maximize  shareholder value by capitalizing on its
position in MOCVD process  technology to become the leading supplier of compound
semiconductor  materials,  devices and production  systems.  The key elements of
EMCORE's strategy include:

     I.   Apply  EMCORE's Core  Materials  and  Manufacturing  Expertise  Across
          Multiple Product Applications.

     EMCORE  continually  leverages its  proprietary  core technology to develop
compound  semiconductor  products  for  multiple  applications  in a variety  of
markets.   These  activities   include  developing  new  products  for  targeted
applications  as well as  expanding  existing  products  into new  applications.
EMCORE uses the most appropriate semiconductor process technology when designing
solutions to a customer's particular  application.  For example, EMCORE recently
introduced its  Enterprise(R)  300LDM MOCVD  production tool designed to achieve
high quality  materials  and high yields for consumer  electronic  applications.
This new tool  produces  devices for several  applications,  including  DVDs and
CD-ROMs that allow for high data storage capacity.  Engineered  specifically for
the  high-volume  production  of  long-wavelength  infrared and visible  lasers,
VCSELs and InP-based  electronic  materials,  EMCORE's 300LDM provides customers
with  unparalleled  run-to-run  process  control and is  designed to  accomplish
excellent uniformity of thickness, doping and epitaxial layer composition.

     II.  Target Potential High Growth Market Opportunities.

     EMCORE's  strategy is to target potential high growth market  opportunities
where performance  characteristics  and high volume production  efficiencies can
give  compound  semiconductors  a  competitive  advantage  over  other  devices.
Historically,  while technologically superior,  compound semiconductors have not
been  widely  deployed  because  they are more  expensive  to  manufacture  than
silicon-based  semiconductors and other existing solutions. EMCORE believes that
as compound  semiconductor  production costs are reduced,  new customers will be
compelled  to  use  these   products   because  of  their   higher   performance
characteristics. For example, EMCORE focuses its efforts in high-growth areas in
communication  infrastructure  by providing  complete  solutions based on widely
accepted  platforms such as Synchronous  Optical Network  (SONET),  Asynchronous
Transfer  Mode  (ATM)  and  Gigabit  Ethernet.   EMCORE's  Optical  Devices  and
Components  product line manufactures  high-speed optical  transmitter  modules,
receiver modules and transponders  utilizing EMCORE's leading-edge VCSEL and PIN
photodiode array components for the data  communications and  telecommunications
markets.  EMCORE's  modules,  designed  to help  solve the data  bottle  necking
problems for distances under 300 meters in central office and  point-of-presence
environments,  provide a cost effective  alternative  to more costly  comparable
serial interconnects.

     III. Pursue Strategic  Acquisitions and Partnerships  with Industry Leading
          Companies.

     EMCORE seeks to identify and develop long-term  relationships  with leading
companies  in  each  of  the  industries  it  serves.   EMCORE   develops  these
relationships  in a number of ways that include  long-term,  high-volume  supply
agreements,  joint  ventures,  acquisitions  and other  arrangements.  Recently,
acquisitions have been a focus in order to enhance technologies.

                                                                               8
<PAGE>

     Recent acquisitions include:

     -    In March 2002, EMCORE acquired certain assets, including equipment and
          intellectual  property, of the Applied Solar Division of Tecstar, Inc.
          and  its  subsidiary,  Tecstar  Power  Systems,  Inc.  (this  acquired
          business is referred to herein as  "Tecstar").  Tecstar  provides CICs
          and solar panel  lay-down  services and has a flight  heritage  dating
          back  to  1958.  Consequently,   this  acquisition  augments  EMCORE's
          capability  to  penetrate  the  satellite  communications'  market  by
          providing  EMCORE with the  capacity  to  manufacture  complete  solar
          panels using EMCORE's solar cells,  thereby enabling EMCORE to provide
          satellite   manufacturers  with  proven  integrated   satellite  power
          solutions that  considerably  improve satellite  economics.  Satellite
          manufacturers  and solar array integrators can now rely on EMCORE as a
          single  supply  source that meets all of their  satellite  power needs
          with proven flight heritage.

     -    In December  2002,  EMCORE  acquired  certain assets of privately held
          Alvesta Corporation (Alvesta) of Sunnyvale,  California. Alvesta is an
          industry  leader in the research  and  development  of parallel  optic
          transceivers for fiber optic communication networks. Alvesta pioneered
          four   channel   parallel   optic   transceivers   for   the   Optical
          Internetworking  Forum,  10G Fibre  Channel,  10 Gigabit  Ethernet and
          Infiniband applications.  Alvesta's product revenues from sales of its
          four-channel  products  were  approximately  $5 million  in 2001.  The
          transaction  included the  acquisition  of  intellectual  property and
          inventory.   In  addition,   EMCORE  hired  several   Alvesta  product
          designers.

     EMCORE is currently pursuing additional  strategic  acquisitions to acquire
new  technologies,   products  and  service  offerings  to  broaden  our  market
penetration in the communications sector.

     IV.  Continually Invest in Research and Development to Maintain  Technology
          Leadership.

     Through substantial investment in research and development, EMCORE seeks to
expand its leadership  position in compound  semiconductor  production  systems,
materials  and  devices.  EMCORE works with its  customers to identify  specific
performance criteria and uses this information to enhance the performance of its
production  systems and to further expand its process and materials  science and
fiber optic module design expertise,  including the development of new low-cost,
high-volume wafers, devices and modules for its customers.  In order to remain a
leader in our market segments,  EMCORE not only addresses our customers' current
needs,  but we also work with them  regarding  their evolving  requirements.  In
addition,  EMCORE's  development efforts are focused on continually lowering the
production costs of its products.  For example,  continuing EMCORE's standing as
the world leader in GaN production platforms, EMCORE formally released in fiscal
2001 the E300  GaNzilla(TM),  one of the most powerful  tools  available for the
production of high  brightness blue and green LEDs.  Similarly,  EMCORE recently
released the latest  version of its  high-efficiency  advanced  triple  junction
solar cells,  which now  incorporates a monolithic  integrated  diode.  In March
2002,  EMCORE introduced its first 10 Gigabit per second (Gbps) Transmit Optical
Subassembly (TOSA) and Receive Optical Subassembly (ROSA).

     V.   Target Positive Cash Flows From Operations.

     Management is committed to reducing  EMCORE's cost structure by focusing on
lowering the breakeven points for each of its product lines. During fiscal 2002,
EMCORE proceeded with a restructuring program,  consisting of the realignment of
all  engineering,  manufacturing  and  sales/marketing  operations,  as  well as
workforce reductions. Included in the provision for restructuring and impairment
charges  recorded  in fiscal  2002 were  severance  and fringe  benefit  charges
related to employee termination costs for 330 employees.  We expect this program
to lower our  expenditures by  approximately  $4.9 million per quarter in fiscal
2003.  EMCORE also essentially  eliminated all outside  contractor and temporary
employees and significantly reduced overall expenditures for materials, software
and  capital  assets.  As  part  of the  ongoing  effort  to cut  costs,  EMCORE
implemented a program to focus research and development efforts on projects that
can be expected to generate  returns  within one year.  As a result,  EMCORE has
been able to reduce overall research and development costs without,  we believe,
jeopardizing future revenue opportunities.  These combined actions should result
in a cost reduction of approximately $6.0 million to $8.0 million per quarter in
fiscal  2003,  which we believe  should  enable us to achieve our goal of having
positive cash flow from operations by the end of fiscal 2003,  assuming revenues
in fiscal 2003 are consistent with revenues in fiscal 2002.

                                                                               9
<PAGE>

EMCORE's Product Lines
----------------------

TurboDisc(R) MOCVD

     EMCORE  is an  industry  leader  in  MOCVD  system  manufacturing  for  the
production  of advanced  epitaxial  materials.  Headquartered  in Somerset,  New
Jersey,  EMCORE  pioneered  the use of stainless  steel  growth  chambers in the
mid-1980s  to  enhance  the  safety  of the MOCVD  process  and allow the use of
automated loading systems to transport wafers into the growth chamber.

     Since its founding in 1984, EMCORE's  proprietary  TurboDisc technology has
used a unique high-speed  rotating disc in a stainless steel growth chamber with
integrated  vacuum-compatible loading chambers. To produce an epitaxial wafer, a
bare substrate,  such as gallium  arsenide,  indium  phosphide or germanium,  is
placed on a wafer  carrier in the  TurboDisc  growth  chamber and heated to high
temperatures.  Based on a  predetermined  formula,  metal organic  materials and
hydride gases are introduced into the growth  chamber.  These gases decompose on
the hot, rapidly spinning wafer.  Semiconductor  materials are then deposited on
the substrate in a highly uniform repeatable manner.

     TurboDisc  technology not only ensures  uniformity of deposition across the
wafer, but also offers flexibility for diverse applications. Our E450 system for
solar cells and E300 GaNzilla system for LEDs, are among the largest  production
systems with high throughput and low cost of ownership  commercially  available.
The  precise  control  of  reactant  gas  flow  leads  to  exceptional  material
utilization efficiency.

     EMCORE's  MOCVD  production  systems,  focused  on the III-V  semiconductor
industry,  are  configured  specifically  for  end-market  applications  such as
HB-LEDs and advanced  electronic  materials and devices.  This approach provides
customers  with  expedited  ramping  times from install to material  production,
resulting  in, we believe,  the most cost  effective  solutions in the industry.
EMCORE's  tool-development  strategy is  supplemented by expertise in epi growth
and  device  manufacturing.  With a large  staff of expert epi  growers,  EMCORE
integrates  feedback about the critical  parameters  involved with the growth of
high  quality  materials  into its  design  of MOCVD  production  systems.  This
knowledge has enabled EMCORE to develop MOCVD systems that produce the materials
results required to meet stringent  device  performance  standards.  In order to
meet  our   objective  of  being  a  provider  of  complete   solutions  to  the
high-performance   equipment   market,  we  offer  several  MOCVD  systems  that
manufacture  a  variety  of  products.   The  following  table  illustrates  the
flexibility  of  EMCORE's  product  line,  listing  each  MOCVD  system  and the
associated market applications.

    EMCORE's MOCVD Systems                    Product Applications
----------------------------- --------------------------------------------------
Pioneer 75                    University  and  research &  development,  various
                              applications
Discovery 180 LDM             VCSELs, laser diodes, AlGaAs and InGaAs detectors
Discovery 180 GaN             Blue and green LEDs,  blue lasers,  GaN electronic
                              devices
Enterprise 300 LDM            Laser diodes
Enterprise 300 GaNzilla       Blue and green LEDs,  blue lasers,  GaN electronic
                              devices
Enterprise 450 EM             Electronic  materials such as pHEMTs,  HBTs, FETs,
                              E-mode devices
Enterprise 450 LED            High-brightness red, orange and yellow LEDs

     EMCORE  believes its  TurboDisc  MOCVD  production  systems,  which have an
average  selling  price in excess of $1.2  million,  enable the  lowest  cost of
ownership for the  manufacture of compound  semiconductor  materials.  The major
components of the cost of ownership include yield, throughput,  direct costs and
capital  costs.  Yield  primarily  relates to  material  uniformity,  which is a
function of the precision of the physical and chemical processes by which atomic
layers are  deposited.  Throughput,  the volume of wafers  produced  per unit of
time,  includes both the time required for a process cycle and the handling time
between process steps.  Direct costs include  consumables  used in manufacturing
and  processing,  maintenance  and spare parts and the clean room space required
for  the  equipment.   Capital  costs  include  the  cost  of  acquisition   and
installation of the process equipment.

                                                                              10
<PAGE>

     EMCORE also  believes that its MOCVD  products are well  positioned to take
advantage of recent  trends in the LED  marketplace,  particularly  in the Asian
marketplace where EMCORE has derived a significant portion of its revenues. LEDs
are being  designed into  miniature  packages in everyday  applications  such as
indicator  lights on  automobiles,  computers,  cellphones and other  electronic
equipment.  LEDs offer  substantial  advantages over small  incandescent  bulbs,
including  longer  life,  lower  maintenance  costs and energy  consumption  and
smaller space  requirements.  Handset  manufacturers  recently have begun to use
blue  or  white  backlighting  in  new  models,   rather  than  the  traditional
yellow-green backlighting that has been common during the last several years. We
believe that LED chips  produced on our MOCVD  production  systems meet the blue
and/or  white  lighting  characteristics  that the market is now  demanding.  In
addition,  we believe  that the  development  of full color  displays for mobile
handsets  will  increase  demand  for  white  LEDs  in  order  to  maximize  the
effectiveness  of the full color  display.  We believe our E300  GaNzilla  MOCVD
system is the world's most powerful tool  available for the  production of high-
brightness blue and green LEDs,  offering one of the highest  throughputs in the
industry for the growth of GaN materials.

     We are consistently focused on development efforts on further improving the
efficiency,  as well as lowering  the  manufacturing  cost,  of our products and
improving  other  performance  characteristics  of devices for certain  markets.
EMCORE's latest generation of TurboDisc products for GaAs and InP materials were
released in fiscal 2001 with many innovations including:

     o    new reactor design to improve source  efficiency,  greater up-time and
          lower maintenance;
     o    digital control system to reduce electronic noise;
     o    modular  component  design to simplify  component and design upgrades;
          and,
     o    improved  temperature  control with the ability to monitor and control
          the deposition temperature to within 1 to 2 degrees Celsius.

     In fiscal 2001, EMCORE introduced with positive  customer  acceptance,  the
E300 GaNzilla  featuring a reactor  design with greater  source  efficiency  and
larger batch size than our previous GaN reactors.  This product release has been
highly  successful  with 14 reactors sold through fiscal 2002 and installed in 3
continents.


Photovoltaics

     EMCORE serves the global  communications market by providing advanced solar
cell products and solar panels for application in the space  industry.  Compound
semiconductor  solar cells are used to power  satellites  because  they are more
resistant to radiation levels in space and convert substantially more power from
light, therefore weighing less per unit of power than silicon-based solar cells.
These  characteristics  increase  satellite life,  increase payload capacity and
reduce launch costs. Solar cells are typically the largest single cost component
of a satellite.

     A solar  cell  works as  follows:  the  "photovoltaic  effect" is the basic
physical process through which a solar cell converts  sunlight into electricity.
Sunlight is composed of photons,  or particles of solar  energy.  These  photons
contain various amounts of energy corresponding to the different  wavelengths of
the solar  spectrum.  When photons strike a solar cell, they may be reflected or
absorbed,  or they may pass right  through the cell.  Only the absorbed  photons
generate electricity. When this happens, the energy of the photon is transformed
into an  electric  current.  Special  electrical  properties  of the solar  cell
provide the voltage  needed to drive the current  through an external load (such
as a solar array for a spacecraft).

     EMCORE designs and manufactures multi-junction compound semiconductor solar
cells for commercial satellite applications in its facility in Albuquerque,  New
Mexico. This facility includes an automated  manufacturing  system that monitors
production   processes,   uses  electronic  run  cards  and  provides  real-time
production   rates  and  yields  for  process   engineering.   EMCORE  currently
manufactures the most efficient commercially available radiation resistant solar
cell in the world,  using an  advanced  triple-junction  cell design and with an
average   beginning  of  life  efficiency  of  27.5%.   Satellite   success  and
corresponding  revenues depend on power efficiency and the satellite's  capacity
to transmit data.

                                                                              11
<PAGE>

     In March 2002, EMCORE acquired Tecstar, which provides CICs and solar panel
lay-down services.  Consequently,  this acquisition augments EMCORE's capability
to penetrate the satellite  communications  market by providing  EMCORE with the
capacity to  manufacture  complete  solar  panels  using  EMCORE's  solar cells,
thereby  enabling  EMCORE  to  provide  satellite   manufacturers   with  proven
integrated   satellite  power  solutions  that  considerably  improve  satellite
economics.  Satellite  manufacturers and solar array integrators can now rely on
EMCORE as a single supply source that meets all of their  satellite  power needs
with proven flight heritage. Furthermore, EMCORE obtained significant patents in
this  acquisition   that  will  enable  EMCORE  to  significantly   improve  the
engineering  and design of solar cell products.  EMCORE will continue  Tecstar's
impressive flight heritage and solar component  manufacturing  expertise,  which
dates back to 1958 when the  Vanguard  satellite  with  Tecstar  solar cells was
launched.  Tecstar's  solar panel  technology  has flown on numerous  successful
satellite  missions,  including  Lockheed  Martin's  Chinastar,  Loral's Telstar
satellite  and Orbital  Sciences'  ORBCOMM  Constellation.  EMCORE is  currently
completing  the process of qualifying  its advanced  solar cells with  Tecstar's
proven solar panel processes for Low Earth Orbits (LEO) and Geosynchronous Earth
Orbits (GEO). The combination of Tecstar's  demonstrated success with well-known
space  programs and  EMCORE's  solar cell  technology  should  enable  EMCORE to
dramatically improve satellite economics. Through well-established  partnerships
with major satellite  manufacturers and a proven qualification  process,  EMCORE
believes it can play a vital role in the  evolution  of  telecommunications  and
data communications around the world.

     Recent Highlights:

     -    EchoStar VIII was successfully  launched in August 2002. EchoStar VIII
          is the first  high-power  GEO  satellite  in orbit  powered  by EMCORE
          high-efficiency solar cells.

     -    In July 2002,  EMCORE was awarded a contract by  ESA/ASTRIUM to supply
          high efficiency solar panels for use in the CRYOSAT Satellite program,
          the  purpose  of  which  is to  investigate  climate  change  behavior
          patterns.


Optical Devices and Components

     Over  the past  several  years,  communication  networks  have  experienced
dramatic growth in data transmission  traffic due to worldwide  Internet access,
e-mail and e-commerce.  These communication networks include those used by local
and long distance  carriers as well as Internet service  providers.  The bulk of
this traffic is routed through the optical  networking  infrastructure.  Optical
fiber offers substantially  greater capacity,  is less error prone and is easier
to administer  than copper wire.  SONET is the primary  standard for  high-speed
transmission of communication  over optic fiber.  More recently,  the demand for
system  bandwidth is being addressed by a technique called  Wavelength  Division
Multiplexing (WDM). WDM increases bandwidth by allowing several optical signals,
each of a different  wavelength,  to be transmitted  simultaneously  on a signal
optic  fiber.  To ensure  that  routing  and  switching  of  information  occurs
accurately, ATM is utilized on top of the SONET optical base. ATM is designed to
efficiently  integrate voice,  data and video and easily scale  bandwidth.  More
recently,   performance  improvements  in  processors  require  high-speed  data
interconnect   and  networking   applications.   Fibre  Channel  is  capable  of
transmitting  data at rates exceeding 1 Gbps in both  directions  simultaneously
and  is  used  for  achieving   high-speed  data  transfer  among  workstations,
mainframes, data storage devices and other peripherals. EMCORE's objective is to
be a leading supplier of high-performance optical devices and components for the
global communications market. EMCORE's Optical Devices and Components groups are
located in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

     VCSELs

     EMCORE  designs,  develops  and  manufactures  high-speed  VCSELs  and  PIN
photodiode   components  and  subassemblies  for  the  data  communications  and
telecommunications  markets.  EMCORE offers a complete product line of VCSEL and
PIN photodiode  solutions,  including bare die, packaged  components and optical
subassemblies for integration into Gigabit Ethernet, Fibre Channel,  Infiniband,
WDM, ATM systems, and high-speed telecom applications,  including VSR OC-192 and
high speed optical backplanes.

                                                                              12
<PAGE>

     VCSELs are revolutionary compound semiconductor microlaser diodes that emit
light  vertically  from the  surface of a  fabricated  wafer.  They  combine the
ability  of  batch  process  and  on-wafer  tests  like  LEDs  and the  superior
electro-optical  performance of traditional  edge-emitting  lasers. In addition,
the cylindrical laser beam profile allows an easy and efficient  coupling of the
light into a multi-mode fiber. The  manufacturability  for both wafer processing
and packaging enables a cost-effective  high-bandwidth fiber optic communication
solution.

     There are two major fabrication processes for VCSELs:  ion-implantation and
selective  oxidation.  Compared to implant VCSELs, the oxide VCSELs provide many
superior   characteristics,   which  include  lower  turn-on   current,   higher
efficiency,  higher speed, better performance linearity and stability and better
reliability.   Currently,   the  implant   VCSELs  are  still  widely  used  for
applications with transmission speeds up to 1 Gbps. However,  the oxide VCSEL is
preferable for  applications  requiring data rates higher than 1 Gbps,  which is
the trend in the datacom industry. EMCORE established a consistent manufacturing
process for the oxide VCSEL fabrication  process despite the inherent challenges
of this manufacturing  technique compared to the implant process.  EMCORE is the
leading high-volume manufacturer of oxide VCSELs.

     VCSELs have many  advantages,  including  ultra-high  modulation  rates for
advanced  information  processing,  extremely low power consumption,  high fiber
optic coupling efficiencies,  circular output beams and photolithography-defined
geometries. Key features of EMCORE's VCSELs, arrays and subassemblies are:

     o    fast transmission speed ranging from 1 to 10 Gbps, transitioning to 20
          Gbps per channel;
     o    consistent  manufacturing  process resulting in VCSELs with consistent
          output power and threshold  current over a wide operating  temperature
          range;
     o    greater device  uniformity  enabling  simplification of circuit design
          and seamless integration into OEM systems; and,
     o    significant  performance  advantages  over  traditional  laser diodes,
          including  greater  control  over  beam size and  wavelength,  reduced
          manufacturing   complexity  and  packaging   costs,  and  lower  power
          consumption.

     EMCORE's  strategy  is to  capitalize  on  its  oxide  VCSEL  manufacturing
platform and expertise, by providing the industry with 1 Gbps, 2.5 Gbps, 10 Gbps
(OC-192),   and  40  Gbps  (OC-768)  solutions  through  single-channel  serial,
multi-channel   parallel  or  WDM   approaches.   Leading   electronic   systems
manufacturers   are  integrating   VCSELs  into  a  broad  array  of  end-market
applications including Internet access, digital cross-connect telecommunications
switches,  Infiniband  optical bus, fiber optic  switching and routing,  such as
Gigabit Ethernet and SAN.

     VCSEL-based array transceivers and transponders

     VCSEL-based  array  transceivers and  transponders,  EMCORE's primary fiber
optic  products,  are  penetrating  telecommunication  markets as solutions  for
low-cost,  VSR OC-192 10 Gbps SONET optical links.  The Optical  Internetworking
Forum (of which EMCORE is a member) approved the  specifications  for VSR OC-192
optical links based on VCSEL arrays in December 2000. Array transceivers are the
preferred  solutions of original equipment  manufacturers for high-speed optical
backplanes which are replacing  traditional  electrical  backplanes as bandwidth
requirements have exceeded the limits practical for copper connections.

     EMCORE has  successfully  developed  and delivered  commercially  available
high-speed   array    transceivers   and   transponders   for   the   data   and
telecommunications  markets.  We work closely with our customers' systems design
teams to better  understand  product  applications in new and existing  systems.
EMCORE's transceivers and transponders offer OEMs several advantages,  including
products that:

     o    have fast transmission speeds up to 40 Gbps aggregate throughput;
     o    are designed for high volume manufacturing;
     o    utilize  EMCORE's  leading-edge  VCSEL array and PIN photodiode  array
          components; and
     o    deliver  significant   cost-performance  and  application  flexibility
          advantages over traditional serial solutions.

                                                                              13

<PAGE>

     Photodetectors

     Photodetectors  are  discrete  semiconductor  devices  that detect light in
order to convert an optical signal into an electrical signal. Similar to VCSELs,
photodetectors combine the ability of batch processing and on-wafer testing with
superior  electro-optical  performance.  The large aperture size readily permits
efficient coupling of light from a multi-mode fiber.

     EMCORE has  successfully  developed an 850 nm 1x12  photodetector  array at
operating  speeds of 1.25 Gbps and 2.7 Gbps per  channel.  In  addition,  850 nm
singlets and 1x4 arrays at 10 Gbps have been developed. The arrays perform light
to logic conversions for data  transmissions over multi-mode fiber ribbon cable.
The long-wavelength  1310 nm photodetector  product is geared largely toward the
high-speed  telecom medium range  market/application  using  single-mode  fiber.
Furthermore,  EMCORE can produce devices that are hermetically sealed,  ensuring
high reliability regardless of the nature of device packaging.

     Since EMCORE first introduced its new family of fiber optic products to the
market,   EMCORE  has  had  several   accomplishments  that  have  provided  the
marketplace  with  high-speed  solutions to alleviate data  congestion.  Some of
these recent achievements include:

     -    In March 2002, EMCORE released transmitting optical subassembly (TOSA)
          and receiving optical  subassembly (ROSA) products operating at a data
          rate of 10  Gbps.  EMCORE  offers  TOSAs  and  ROSAs in both LC and SC
          coupling  formats.  These OSAs are built upon EMCORE's  photodetectors
          and  award-winning  10 Gbps VCSELs (2001 Circle of Excellence  Product
          Award by Photonics Spectrum),  demonstrating superior  electro-optical
          performance  and  reliability.  The  design  and  processes  of  these
          subassemblies are highly leveraged by and compatible with those of the
          standard  products  for  2.5  Gbps.  This  design  philosophy  for the
          products and processes provides,  we believe,  the most cost-effective
          solutions.  Most of the leading  OEMs have  selected  EMCORE's 10 Gbps
          TOSAs and ROSAs as the key components for their  small-form-factor and
          low-cost   transceivers   and   transponders.   These   XFP  and  XPAK
          transceivers  will be widely used in  applications  such as 10 Gigabit
          Ethernet, 10 Gigabit Fibre Channel, and proprietary links.

     -    In July  2002,  EMCORE  received  a  prestigious  R&D 100  Award  in a
          competition  sponsored  annually  by R&D  Magazine.  The  award was in
          recognition   of  advanced  fiber  optic  module   development   work,
          accomplished   by  EMCORE  in   conjunction   with   Sandia   National
          Laboratories,  for the MTR8500 VSR OC-192 Parallel Array  Transponder.
          The MTR8500,  which provides VSR interconnections  over parallel fiber
          links at SONET OC-192 data rates, was the first commercially available
          300-pin transponder compliant with the Optical Internetworking Forum's
          VSR-1 Implementation Agreement (OIF-VSR4-0.10).

     -    During  fiscal 2002,  EMCORE  announced  the  expansion of its optical
          device product  portfolio with the commercial  availability of two new
          1310 nm, high speed,  high  performance PIN diodes designed for use in
          OC-48 and OC-192 data and telecom applications.  The 2.5 GHz, 1X12 PIN
          diode  array and 10 GHz PIN diode  singlet  are  designed  to meet all
          requirements   of  "Telcordia  468"  standard   including   chip-level
          hermeticity, and therefore, offer significant cost savings as a result
          of their minimal packaging requirements.  Furthermore, PIN diodes from
          EMCORE feature a high degree of  responsivity,  low  capacitance,  low
          dark current, and high bandwidth.

                                                                              14
<PAGE>

Electronic Materials and Devices

     The  manufacturing  process for  electronic  materials is based on EMCORE's
proprietary  TurboDisc  technology  which  utilizes a unique high speed rotating
disk in a stainless  steel  growth  chamber  with  integrated  vacuum-compatible
loading  chambers.  To  produce  a  wafer,  a bare  substrate,  such as  gallium
arsenide,  sapphire or germanium,  is placed on a wafer carrier in the TurboDisc
growth  chamber and  subjected to high  temperatures.  Based on a  predetermined
formula,  metal organic gases are released into the growth chamber.  These gases
decompose on the hot, rapidly spinning wafer.  Semiconductor  materials are then
deposited on the substrate in a highly uniform manner.  The resulting wafer thus
carries one or more ultra-thin layers of compound semiconductor material such as
gallium arsenide,  gallium nitride or indium phosphide. The TurboDisc technology
not only produces  uniformity of  deposition  across the wafer,  but also offers
flexibility  for  diverse   applications  with  improved  material  results  and
increased production rates. The unique precision control of reactant gas flow in
the TurboDisc  technology platform allows users to scale easily from research to
commercial volumes with substantially reduced time and effort. Upon removal from
the growth chamber, the wafer is transferred to a device processing facility for
various steps such as  photolithography,  etching,  masking,  metallization  and
dicing.  Upon completion of these steps, the devices are then sent for packaging
and incorporation in the customer's product.

     Electronic Materials

     RF  materials  are  compound  semiconductor   materials  used  in  wireless
communications. Compound semiconductor RF materials have a broader bandwidth and
superior performance at higher frequencies than silicon-based materials.  EMCORE
currently  produces  4-inch and  6-inch  InGaP HBT and  AlGaAs  pHEMT  materials
including  E-mode devices that are used for power amplifiers for next generation
wireless  infrastructure such as GSM, TDMA and CDMA multiband wireless handsets.
InGaP HBT materials provide higher  linearity,  higher power added efficiency as
well as greater  reliability than first generation AlGaAs HBT  technologies.  In
addition,  recent  developments  and transfers to production of enhancement mode
pHEMT technologies have demonstrated their continued competitiveness for handset
applications.  EMCORE  believes  that its ability to produce  high volumes of RF
materials at a low cost will encourage  their adoption in new  applications  and
products.

     EMCORE's  Somerset,  New Jersey  manufacturing  facility has six  TurboDisc
MOCVD production systems dedicated to electronic  materials  production.  EMCORE
also  equipped  its wafer  fabrication  area with state of the art  cassette  to
cassette characterization equipment.

     Electronic Devices

     MR  sensors  are  compound   semiconductor  devices  that  possess  sensing
capabilities.  MR sensors  improve  vehicle  performance  through more  accurate
control of engine and crank shaft timing,  which allows for improved  spark plug
efficiency and reduced emissions. In January 1997, EMCORE initiated shipments of
compound  semiconductor  MR sensors  using  technology  licensed  to EMCORE from
General  Motors.  This license  allows EMCORE to  manufacture  and sell products
using this  technology.  Through fiscal 2002,  EMCORE had delivered more than 15
million  devices  to  General  Motors  Powertrain  for  crank  and cam speed and
position sensing applications.

                                                                              15

<PAGE>

HB-LED Joint Venture

     HB-LEDs are solid state compound  semiconductor devices that emit light and
are used in miniature packages in everyday applications such as indicator lights
on  automobiles,   computers  and  other  electronic  equipment.  HB-LEDs  offer
substantial  advantages over small  incandescent  bulbs,  including longer life,
lower maintenance costs and energy  consumption and smaller space  requirements.
Groups  of  HB-LEDs  can  make up  single  or  full-color  electronic  displays.
Presently,  HB-LED chips produced on EMCORE's MOCVD production  systems are used
for backlighting in applications  such as wireless  handsets,  computer monitors
and  automotive  dashboard  lighting.  In  addition,  they are used in  consumer
products and office  equipment as indicator  lighting,  in full color  displays,
message  advertising and  informational  signs,  landscape  lighting and traffic
signals.  Some of our customers  manufacture  HB-LED  components that emit white
light using blue or ultraviolet  HB-LEDs  produced on EMCORE's MOCVD  production
systems. By passing blue HB-LED light through certain conversion  materials such
as phosphors,  or by using blue in combination with HB-LEDs of other appropriate
colors, white light emission can be obtained.

     In January 1999,  EMCORE and General  Electric  Lighting formed GELcore LLC
(GELcore), a joint venture to develop and market HB-LED lighting products. Under
the terms of the  joint  venture  agreement,  EMCORE  has a 49%  non-controlling
interest in the joint venture.  Both parties have agreed that this joint venture
will be the  exclusive  vehicle for each  party's  participation  in solid state
lighting.   GELcore  combines  EMCORE's  materials  science  and  device  design
expertise with General  Electric  Lighting's  brand name  recognition,  phosphor
technology  and extensive  marketing and  distribution  capabilities.  GELcore's
current product line includes traffic lights,  channel letters,  flashlights and
other signage and display products  incorporating  HB-LEDs.  GELcore's long-term
goal is to develop products to replace traditional  lighting. In September 2000,
GELcore acquired Ecolux,  Inc., adding HB-LED signaling  products to its growing
line of LED products.  EMCORE  believes  that Ecolux is currently  receiving the
majority  of  contracts  for  which  it  submits  bids  for the  replacement  of
traditional traffic lights with HB-LEDs.

     Recent highlight:  In July 2002, EMCORE announced that it received a patent
for its  invention of a  semiconductor  laser  separation  technique for gallium
nitride-based  and  other  materials  grown  on  sapphire  substrates.  The  new
technique,  which uses a patterned  laser  projection  to separate the processed
wafer into several thousand individual devices,  solves many challenges inherent
with current separation techniques. The new method designed by EMCORE, which has
been  successfully  employed in a high-volume  HB-LED  manufacturing  production
facility for over 2 years, will expedite  manufacturing  times of GaN-based blue
and green HB-LEDs and improve GaN materials  device  yields and  throughput.  It
will also have a  significant  impact on the cost and  manufacturability  of all
devices on sapphire substrate.  The new device separation  technique from EMCORE
virtually  eliminates  yield loss,  requires low maintenance  and  significantly
improves  device  fabrication  cycle  times.   Using  EMCORE's  method,   device
separation is achieved by laser  ablation,  where a laser beam is passed through
optical  elements  and  masks to  produce  a  patterned  laser  projection.  The
patterned laser projection is then directed at the wafer surface and applied for
a specified  time at a  specified  power to achieve a precise cut into the wafer
and  dramatically  increase  the number of devices  that can be achieved  from a
single wafer.

Government Research Contract Funding
------------------------------------

     EMCORE  derives a portion of its revenue from funding of research  contacts
with the U.S.  Government  (Government).  These  contracts  typically cover work
performed  from over several  months up to four years.  These  contracts  may be
modified or terminated at the  convenience of the Government.  Therefore,  these
programs may be subject to  Government  budgetary  fluctuations.  The  contracts
generally  provide that we may elect to retain title to  inventions  made in the
course of research  with the  Government  obtaining a  non-exclusive  license to
practice such  inventions  for Government  purposes.  For the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2002, 2001, and 2000, Government funding represented 4%, 1% and 2%
of total revenue, respectively.

     Recent  highlight:  In June 2002,  EMCORE  signed a contract  with  Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) under which it will participate in the
Department   of   Defense    agency's    mission   to   develop   wide   bandgap
semiconductor-based  high power, high frequency  electronics for use in military
applications  based on EMCORE's GaN technology.  The contract consists of a $3.0
million  baseline  project to be  completed  over an 18-month  period,  and $1.0
million of additional work to be  performed  at the  Government's  option over a
subsequent  10-month  period.  The Government has not yet exercised this option.
EMCORE will recognize revenue to the extent of costs incurred plus the estimated
gross profit as stipulated within the contract, based upon contract performance.

                                                                              16

<PAGE>


Customers
---------

     Since its inception, EMCORE has worked closely with its customers to design
and  develop  process  technology  and  material  science  expertise  for use in
production systems for its customers' end-use applications. EMCORE has leveraged
its process and materials science knowledge base to manufacture a broad range of
compound semiconductor wafers and devices such as VCSELs, photodetectors, RF and
electronic  materials,  solar cells,  HB-LEDs and MR sensors.  EMCORE's customer
base includes many of the largest  semiconductor,  telecommunications,  consumer
goods and computer  manufacturing  companies in the world. Some of our customers
include  Agere  Systems,   Inc.,  Agilent  Technologies  Ltd.,  Anadigics  Inc.,
Boeing-Spectrolab,  Corning,  Inc.,  General Motors Corp.,  Hewlett Packard Co.,
Honeywell   International,   Inc.,  Infineon  Technologies  AG,  Loral  Space  &
Communications Ltd., LumiLeds Lighting (a joint venture between Philips Lighting
and Agilent Technologies),  Motorola,  Inc., Nortel Networks Corp., Siemens AG's
Osram GmbH  subsidiary, TriQuint  Semiconductor,  Inc.,  Tyco, Inc., many of the
largest  electronics  manufacturers in Japan and a number of Taiwanese,  Chinese
and Korean  companies.  EMCORE also sells to a number of other  customers  whose
names cannot be identified because of confidentiality obligations.

     EMCORE has a comprehensive  total quality  management  program with special
emphasis  on total  customer  satisfaction.  EMCORE  seeks to  encourage  active
customer involvement with the design and operation of its production systems. To
accomplish  this,  EMCORE  conducts user group  meetings  among its customers in
Asia, Europe and North America.  At annual meetings,  EMCORE's customers provide
valuable  feedback on key operations,  process oriented  services,  problems and
recommendations  to improve EMCORE products.  This direct customer  feedback has
enabled  EMCORE to  constantly  update and improve the design of its systems and
processes.  Changes that affect the  reliability  and  capabilities  of EMCORE's
systems are  embodied in new designs to enable  current and future  customers to
utilize systems which EMCORE believes are high quality and cost-efficient.


Marketing and Sales
-------------------

     EMCORE  actively  markets  its  products  through  select  advertising  and
participation  at trade shows.  Our  customers  work  directly with our internal
sales force and senior management for sales in North America, Europe and Taiwan.
To market,  sell, and service certain of our products in Japan and China, EMCORE
relies on Hakuto Co., Ltd. Hakuto has exclusive  distribution rights for certain
systems-related  products  in China and Japan  through  March  2008.  Hakuto has
marketed and serviced  EMCORE's  products  since 1988 via six branch offices and
owns  approximately  4% of EMCORE's common stock.  Until he retired in 2002, the
President of Hakuto had also been a member of EMCORE's Board of Directors  since
1997.  EMCORE  uses DI Systems to market and  service  EMCORE's  systems-related
products  in South  Korea and Nissho  Iwai  Corporation  to market  photovoltaic
products in Japan, Korea and India.

     In addition to EMCORE's three manufacturing  facilities,  it also maintains
one domestic  sales office  located in Santa Clara,  California and two overseas
sales  offices  located in France  and  Taiwan.  These  offices  were  opened to
efficiently  service and provide engineering support closer to EMCORE's customer
base in these areas. As a result of the introduction of many new products during
fiscal  2002,  EMCORE's   management   perceives  the  need  for  more  frequent
interaction  with our  customers.  As a result,  EMCORE is  considering  opening
additional overseas sales offices to facilitate business transactions and act as
a liaison between our Asia Pacific customers and our U.S. corporate office.

     EMCORE  allows each  product  line to  maximize  its reach into each market
segment.  While there are common  technologies  used by each product  line,  the
customers  and market  segments are much more  diverse.  Each product line has a
marketing  and sales  organization  that can focus  completely  on the  customer
needs, the service required both before and after the order is received, as well
as on the  competitive  threats  each  product and market  segment  faces.  With
regards  to   systems-related   products,   EMCORE  seeks  to  match  customer's
requirements to an existing design or a modification of a standard design.  When
necessary,  EMCORE will work with the customer to develop the appropriate design
process and to  configure  and  manufacture  the  production  system to meet the
customer's needs. EMCORE will also produce samples to demonstrate conformance to
the  customer's  specifications.  For  production  systems,  the sales  cycle is
typically lengthy and requires continued participation from salespersons,  field
engineers  and product  designers.  The period of time from the initial  contact
with the customer to the customer's  placement of an order is typically three to
nine  months or longer.  EMCORE's  sales  cycle for  materials-related  products
usually  runs three  months to in excess of a year,  during  which  time  EMCORE
develops the formula of

                                                                              17

<PAGE>


elements  necessary to meet the  customer's  specifications  and  qualifies  the
materials, which may also require the delivery of samples.  Accordingly,  EMCORE
is able to develop strategic, and therefore long lasting, customer relationships
and technologies that are industry leading and that customers want, which EMCORE
believes will enable it to  ultimately  achieve  EMCORE's  objective of becoming
market leaders as well as technology leaders in each of its product lines.


Service and Support
-------------------

     EMCORE  maintains a worldwide  service and support network  responsible for
on-site   maintenance  and  process   monitoring  on  either  a  contractual  or
time-and-materials  basis. Customers may purchase annual service contracts under
which EMCORE is required to maintain an inventory  of  replacement  parts and to
service the equipment upon the customer's  request.  EMCORE pursues a program of
system  upgrades for  customers to increase the  performance  of older  systems.
EMCORE  generally does not offer extended payment terms to customers and adheres
to a  warranty  policy of 1 year or less.  Consistent  with  industry  practice,
EMCORE  maintains an inventory of components for servicing  systems in the field
and it  believes  that  its  inventory  is  sufficient  to  satisfy  foreseeable
short-term customer requirements. EMCORE operates warehouse depots in Taiwan and
in Europe to provide  improved timely service to its overseas  customers.  As of
September 30, 2002,  EMCORE  employed 26 field  service  engineers and staff who
install MOCVD systems and provide on-site support.


Backlog
-------

     As of  September  30,  2002,  EMCORE had a backlog  believed  to be firm of
approximately   $45  million,   consisting  of  approximately   $26  million  of
system-related orders and $19 million of materials-related orders. This compares
to a backlog  of $75  million  as  reported  at the end of the prior  year.  The
decrease in backlog was primarily  attributable to decreased demand  experienced
within EMCORE's  systems-related product line, which resulted in a significantly
lower number of new orders booked in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001. The
current economic climate has reduced capital  spending  dramatically  during the
past year, particularly in the data and telecommunication  sectors, where EMCORE
has   traditionally   sold  a  significant   portion  of   systems-related   and
material-related   products.   Historically,   significant   portions   of   our
materials-related  revenues are not reported in backlog since our customers have
reduced lead times. Many of our materials-related sales usually occur within the
same month when the  purchase  order is  received.  The backlog does not include
orders for product that have not met qualification  specifications,  nor does it
include  anticipated  service  or  component  orders,  estimated  at $8  million
annually,  since these orders have very short lead times.  We believe the entire
backlog  could be filled  during  fiscal  2003.  However,  especially  given the
current market environment, customers may delay shipment of certain orders until
fiscal 2004. Backlog also could be adversely affected if customers  unexpectedly
cancel purchase orders accepted by us.


Manufacturing
-------------

     EMCORE's operations include MOCVD system engineering and manufacture, wafer
fabrication,  design and device production, solar panel engineering and assembly
and fiber optic module design and  manufacture.  Many of EMCORE's  manufacturing
operations  are computer  monitored or  controlled  to enhance  reliability  and
yield.  EMCORE  manufactures  its  own  MOCVD  systems.  EMCORE  outsources  the
manufacture of some components and sub-assemblies, but performs all final system
integration,  assembly and testing.  As of  September  30, 2002,  EMCORE had 350
employees involved in manufacturing.  The location of and products  manufactured
at EMCORE's facilities are summarized below:

           Location                              EMCORE product line
------------------------------   -----------------------------------------------
Somerset, New Jersey             - TurboDisc MOCVD (production systems)
(headquarters)                   - Electronic   Materials  and  Devices   (HBTs,
                                   pHEMTs and MR sensors)

Albuquerque, New Mexico          - Photovoltaics (solar cells)
                                 - Optical  Devices and  Components  (VCSELs and
                                   fiber optic modules)

City of Industry, California     - Photovoltaics (CICs and solar panels)

                                                                              18
<PAGE>


     EMCORE fabricates electronic materials and devices at its facilities in New
Jersey  and  New  Mexico, which  have  a  combined   clean  room  area  totaling
approximately 41,000 square feet. Unlike silicon semiconductor technology, which
could  involve up to a 100-step  manufacturing  process,  our  materials-related
products  are  manufactured  in  a  four-part  process:   epitaxial  deposition,
fabrication,  testing and packaging.  Up to 80% of the manufacturing  process is
completed in our internally manufactured MOCVD production systems. The epitaxial
deposition  process  represents  the growth of thin layers of SiC,  GaN or other
materials  on a polished  wafer,  depending  on the  nature of the device  under
production. Following epitaxy, chips are fabricated in a clean room environment.
The final steps involve testing and cutting prior to shipment to the customer.

     The manufacturing process also involves extensive quality assurance systems
and performance testing. Both EMCORE's New Jersey and New Mexico facilities have
acquired and maintain certification status for their Quality Management Systems.
The New  Jersey  facility,  which  is  used  by  EMCORE's  TurboDisc  MOCVD  and
Electronic  Materials  and  Devices  groups,  is  registered  to  ISO  9001 + QS
9000-1998.  The New Mexico facility, which is used by EMCORE's Photovoltaics and
Optical Devices and Components groups and the California facility, which is also
used by the Photovoltaics group are registered to ISO 9001.


Sources of Raw Materials
------------------------

     Outside  contractors  and  vendors  are used to supply  raw  materials  and
standard  components  and to  assemble  portions  of  end  systems  from  EMCORE
specifications.  In certain  cases,  EMCORE depends on sole, or a limited number
of,  vendors of components  and raw  materials; however,  EMCORE is  continually
reviewing  efforts to mitigate  risks.  We  generally  do not carry  significant
inventories of any raw materials.  EMCORE maintains  inventories it believes are
sufficient  to meet its near term  needs.  Because we often do not account for a
significant part of our vendors' business,  we may not have access to sufficient
capacity from these vendors in periods of high demand.  EMCORE maintains ongoing
communications with its vendors to try to ensure against interruptions in supply
and has, to date,  generally been able to obtain sufficient supplies in a timely
manner.  EMCORE  implemented  a vendor  program  to inspect  quality  and review
suppliers and prices in order to standardize purchasing  efficiencies and design
requirements in order to maintain as low a cost of sales as possible. If we were
to change any of our  limited or sole  source  vendors,  we would be required to
re-qualify  each new vendor.  Re-qualification  could  prevent or delay  product
shipments that could negatively  affect our results of operations.  In addition,
our  reliance  on these  vendors may  negatively  affect our  production  if the
components  vary in  quality  or  quantity.  If we are  unable to obtain  timely
deliveries of sufficient  components of acceptable  quality, or if the prices of
components for which we do not have alternative sources increase,  our business,
financial  condition,  results of operations  and cash flows could be materially
and adversely affected.


Research and Development
------------------------

     The  semiconductor  industry is  characterized  by rapid changes in process
technologies with increasing levels of functional  integration.  To maintain and
improve its  competitive  position,  EMCORE  invests  significant  resources  in
research and  development.  Our efforts are focused on designing new proprietary
processes and products,  improving the performance of existing  systems,  wafers
and devices and reducing costs in the product manufacturing process.  EMCORE has
dedicated 23 TurboDisc systems and five device  fabrication  facilities for both
research and production  that are capable of processing  virtually  all-compound
semiconductor  materials.  Nine  of  those  TurboDisc  systems  and  two  device
fabrication  areas are dedicated fully to research and  development  efforts and
are used by a staff of over 65 scientists,  engineers, technicians and staff, 36
of which have a Ph.D. degree. The research and development staff utilizes x-ray,
optical and electrical  characterization  equipment  that provides  instant data
allowing for shortened  development cycles and rapid customer  response.  During
fiscal years 2002, 2001 and 2000,  EMCORE invested $41.0 million,  $53.4 million
and $32.7 million towards our product  research and development  activities.  As
part of the ongoing effort to cut costs,  EMCORE  implemented a program to focus
research and  development  efforts on projects  that can be expected to generate
returns  within one year.  As a result,  EMCORE has been able to reduce  overall
research and development costs without, we believe,  jeopardizing future revenue
opportunities.  EMCORE believes that several  research and development  projects
have the potential to greatly improve its competitive  position and to drive its
revenue growth in the next few years. For example:

     o    During  fiscal 2002,  EMCORE's  E300  GaNzilla  system has seen market
          penetration  in  every  major  geographical  market  area  with  tools
          shipping  within  North  America  and to Europe and Asia.  The initial
          system  installations have proven to the market the versatility of our
          E300 GaNzilla system and its ability

                                                                              19

<PAGE>


          to  perform  in a  robust  and  stable  mode for  production.  We have
          continuously  improved  our blue  (470 nm) and green  (525 nm)  HB-LED
          growth  processes  throughout the year,  resulting in typical emission
          powers of 3.0 mW and 2.0 mW, respectively, for standard die conditions
          from  both  the E300 and D180  GaN  reactor  platforms.  We have  also
          started  work  on  ultraviolet   HB-LEDs  (~  400  nm),  intended  for
          solid-state-lighting,  where  we  have  achieved  30 mW  power  from a
          flip-chip design structure. Furthermore, we have developed AlGaN-based
          solar-blind detectors for a government-sponsored  contract,  achieving
          almost 50% external  quantum  efficiency  in the 250-280 nm wavelength
          detection range.

     o    EMCORE is currently  designing  new products for the  high-performance
          optical  communications  market.  In the field of optical  devices and
          components,   EMCORE  has  been  the  leader  in  the  development  of
          high-speed  VCSELs.  The 10 Gbps VCSEL  chips and  packages  have been
          successfully  developed and released to production.  These  high-speed
          VCSELs  can be  produced  as  singlets  or as arrays  for much  higher
          bandwidth  transceivers.  EMCORE has invested significant resources in
          developing  VCSELs operating near 1310 nm wavelength.  Steady progress
          has been made. The success of this project will lead to a low-cost key
          component for OC-48 and OC-192 transceiver components.  Along with its
          VCSEL  efforts,  EMCORE  developed  850 nm and  1310 nm  photodetector
          arrays,  which  operate at speeds of up to 10 Gbps and are designed to
          work with these VCSEL devices. EMCORE has invested aggressively in the
          development of array transceiver products that capitalize on its VCSEL
          and  photodetector   components.  By  manufacturing  these  components
          in-house, EMCORE is able to reduce the overall cost of the transceiver
          module.  With  the VSR  OC-192  transponder  and 12 x 2.7  Gbps  array
          transceiver  successfully  qualified and  implemented by OEMs,  EMCORE
          plans  to  continue  with  this  roadmap  to  introduce  a  family  of
          state-of-the-art  products for VSR fiber optics  modules.  Through its
          acquisition of Alvesta, EMCORE has added four-channel transceivers and
          transponders to its fiber optic product offering.

     o    In the field of solar cells, development of advanced device structures
          and growth  techniques  are  enabling  both an  increase in solar cell
          efficiency from EMCORE's  current industry leading 27.5% solar cell to
          a 28.5% product and the integration of a true monolithic  bypass diode
          on the solar cell.

     o    For electronic materials, EMCORE has continued to develop advanced HBT
          and pHEMT structures using next generation materials,  such as InGaAsN
          and InP.

     EMCORE also  competes for research and  development  funds.  In view of the
high cost of  development,  EMCORE  solicits  research  contracts  that  provide
opportunities   to  enhance   its  core   technology   base  and   promote   the
commercialization  of targeted  EMCORE  products.  EMCORE is also  positioned to
market technology and process  development  expertise  directly to customers who
require it for their own product development efforts.


Intellectual Property and Licensing
-----------------------------------

     EMCORE's  success  and  competitive  position  in  sales  of  semiconductor
production systems,  wafers and devices depends  significantly on its ability to
obtain  intellectual  property  protection  for  its  research  and  development
efforts.  EMCORE's  strategy  is to rely on both  patents  and trade  secrets to
protect its intellectual property. To date, EMCORE has 28 U.S. patents and three
foreign patents, and others are either pending (65 patent applications filed) or
under in-house review (2 disclosures and draft patent applications). Included in
these amounts are patents and patent  applications  acquired  from Tecstar.  The
U.S.  patents will expire  between  2005 and 2018.  These  patents  (granted and
filed)  claim  material  aspects of current or planned  commercial  versions  of
EMCORE's systems,  wafers or devices.  In addition,  EMCORE actively markets and
licenses its intellectual property.

     Some recently issued patents and filed patent applications include:

     o    U.S.   Patent  No.   6,413,839   granted  on  July  2,  2002  entitled
          "Semiconductor   Device   Separation"  covers  the  device  separation
          technique  for  gallium  nitride-based  and other  materials  grown on
          sapphire substrates, and

                                                                              20

<PAGE>

     o    U.S. Patent No. 6,197,121 granted on March 6, 2001 entitled  "Chemical
          Vapor  Deposition  Apparatus"  covers material  aspects of our current
          reactor technology, and

     o    The 12 x 1.25 Gbps  array  transceiver  project  for VSR fiber  optics
          modules have generated eight patent applications to date.

     EMCORE relies on trade secrets to protect its intellectual property when it
believes  publishing patents would make it easier for others to reverse engineer
EMCORE's proprietary  processes. A "trade secret'' is information that has value
to the extent it is not generally  known,  not readily  ascertainable  by others
through  legitimate  means and  protected in a way that  maintains  its secrecy.
Reliance on trade  secrets is only an  effective  business  practice  insofar as
trade secrets  remain  undisclosed  and a proprietary  product or process is not
reverse  engineered or  independently  developed.  In order to protect its trade
secrets,  EMCORE  takes  certain  measures  to  ensure  their  secrecy,  such as
partitioning the non-essential flow of information  between its different groups
and  executing  non-disclosure  agreements  with its  employees,  joint  venture
partners, customers and suppliers.

     As is typical in our industry,  we have, from time to time,  received,  and
may  continue to receive in the future,  letters from third  parties,  asserting
patent  rights or other  intellectual  property  rights  against  certain of our
products  and  processes.  None  of the  claims  to  date  has  resulted  in the
commencement  of any litigation  against us. From time to time,  EMCORE licenses
from third  parties  technology  and patent rights to  manufacture  and sell its
products.  For example,  EMCORE is a licensee of certain  VCSEL  technology  and
associated patent rights owned by Sandia Corporation.  The Sandia license grants
EMCORE:

     o    non-exclusive  rights  to  develop,   manufacture  and  sell  products
          containing  Sandia  VCSEL  technologies  under five U.S.  patents that
          expire between 2007 and 2015; and
     o    non-exclusive  rights to employ a  proprietary  oxidation  fabrication
          method in the  manufacture of VCSEL products under a sixth U.S. patent
          that expires in 2014.  EMCORE's success and competitive  position as a
          producer of VCSEL products  depends on the  continuation of its rights
          under the Sandia  license,  the scope and duration of those rights and
          the  ability of Sandia to protect  its  proprietary  interests  in the
          underlying technology and patents.


Environmental Regulations
-------------------------

     EMCORE  is  subject  to  federal,  state  and  local  laws and  regulations
concerning the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release,
discharge and disposal of certain materials used in its research and development
and  production   operations,   as  well  as  laws  and  regulations  concerning
environmental  remediation  and employee  health and safety.  The  production of
wafers  and  devices  involves  the  use of  certain  hazardous  raw  materials,
including,  but not  limited  to,  ammonia,  phosphine  and  arsine.  EMCORE has
in-house  professionals to address compliance with applicable  environmental and
health  and  safety  laws and  regulations.

     If EMCORE's control systems are unsuccessful in preventing release of these
or other hazardous materials, EMCORE could experience a substantial interruption
of  operations  and could be subject to  significant  liability for clean-up and
other  claims.  On May 7, 2002,  EMCORE  received a warning  letter  from the US
Environmental  Protection  Agency  regarding  alleged failure in the Albuquerque
facility to maintain the  paperwork  required of a Large  Quantity  Generator as
required by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA). EMCORE is
in the process of implementing a  comprehensive  program to address the concerns
raised by this letter.  EMCORE  believes that it is currently in compliance with
all applicable  environmental  laws,  including RCRA,  except such violations as
could not  reasonably  be  expected to have a material  effect on the  financial
condition or results of operations of EMCORE.


Competition
-----------

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by
rapid technological  change,  price erosion and substantial foreign competition.
EMCORE  faces  actual and  potential  competition  from a number of  established
domestic  and  international  compound  semiconductor  companies.  Many of these
companies  have greater  engineering,  manufacturing,  marketing  and  financial
resources than we have. EMCORE competes with primarily


                                                                              21
<PAGE>


two competitors for sales of MOCVD systems:  Aixtron GmbH and Nippon-Sanso  K.K.
Ltd. EMCORE also faces competition from  manufacturers  that implement  in-house
systems for their own use. We believe our  systems  segment  currently  enjoys a
favorable  position in today's  markets  due to our  pioneering  technology  and
engineering  development  breakthroughs  that have provided our customers with a
level of process  control,  reliability and lower  manufacturing  costs formerly
unavailable in the MOCVD industry. For photovoltaics products,  EMCORE primarily
competes with  Boeing-Spectrolab,  Sharp  Electronics and RWE Solar. The primary
competitors   for  EMCORE's   Electronic   Materials   wafer   foundry   include
Hitachi-Cable,  Kopin  Corporation  and IQE.  Competition  is also strong in the
optical  market due to the high  potential  market  growth,  which attracts both
larger and smaller  competitors.  EMCORE's  principal  competitors  for sales of
VCSEL-related  products include Honeywell,  Inc. and Avalon Photonics for serial
optics and Agilent,  Infineon and Stratos  Lightwave  for parallel  optics.  The
principal  competitors for MR sensors are Honeywell,  Inc.,  Matsushita Electric
Industrial  Co.  Ltd.,  Siemens AG  Osterreich,  Electrotechnik  and Asahi Kasei
Electronic  Co., Ltd.. The principal  competitors for HB-LEDs and EMCORE's joint
venture  with General  Electric  Lighting  include  LumiLeds  Lighting,  a joint
venture between Agilent  Technologies and Philips  Lighting,  Siemens AG's Osram
GmbH  subsidiary,  Nichia  Corporation  and Toyoda Gosei Co.,  Ltd. In addition,
Epistar,  Arima,  UEC and other Asian based companies in recent years have begun
production of LEDs.

     In  addition,   EMCORE  competes  with  many  research   institutions   and
universities for research  contract  funding.  EMCORE also sells its products to
current  competitors and companies with the capability of becoming  competitors.
As the markets for EMCORE's  products grow, new competitors are likely to emerge
and present competitors may increase their market share. Furthermore, in the EU,
political and legal  requirements  encourage the purchase of EU-produced  goods,
which  can  put  EMCORE  at  a  competitive  disadvantage  as  against  European
competitors.

     There are substantial  barriers to entry by new competitors across EMCORE's
product lines.  These barriers  include:  the large number of existing  patents,
time and costs to be  incurred  to develop  products,  technical  difficulty  in
manufacturing  semiconductor  products,  lengthy sales and qualification cycles,
and  difficulties  in hiring and retaining  skilled  employees with the required
scientific  and  technical   backgrounds.   EMCORE  believes  that  the  primary
competitive factors in the markets in which EMCORE's products compete are yield,
throughput,  performance,  breadth of product line,  product heritage,  customer
satisfaction,  customer commitment to competing technologies and, in the case of
production  systems,  capital  and  direct  costs  and size of  installed  base.
Competitors  may develop  enhancements  to or future  generations of competitive
products that offer superior price and performance factors. EMCORE believes that
in order to remain competitive,  it must invest significant  financial resources
in developing new product features and enhancements and in maintaining  customer
satisfaction worldwide.


Investments
-----------

     In February  2002,  EMCORE  purchased  $1.0 million of  preferred  stock of
Archcom  Technology,   Inc.,  a  venture-funded,   start-up  optical  networking
components  company  that  designs,  manufactures,  and markets a series of high
performance  lasers and photodiodes for datacom and telecom  industries.  EMCORE
does not exercise  significant  influence over financial and operating policies,
and the  investment  represents  less than 20% of ownership.  Therefore,  EMCORE
accounts for this investment under the cost method of accounting.


Employees
---------

     At September 30, 2002, EMCORE had 558 employees, including 350 employees in
manufacturing  operations,  62  employees  in  research  and  development,   144
employees in sales, general and administration and 2 temporary  employees.  This
represented a decrease of 309 employees or 36% from  September 30, 2001.  Due to
dramatically  reduced capital spending during the past year,  EMCORE announced a
restructuring  that  included  workforce  reductions  during  fiscal  2002.  The
workforce,  all of whom were entitled to  termination  benefits,  was reduced in
both of  EMCORE's  business  segments.  Management  does  not  believe  that the
restructuring  will have a material  impact on future  revenues.  Our ability to
attract and retain  qualified  personnel is essential to our continued  success.
None of EMCORE's employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, nor
have we ever  experienced  any  labor-related  work  stoppage.  We  believe  our
employee relations are good.

                                                                              22
<PAGE>

Risk Factors
------------

     YOU SHOULD  CAREFULLY  CONSIDER THE RISKS  DESCRIBED  BELOW.  IF ANY OF THE
FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCURS, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS  COULD BE MATERIALLY  AND ADVERSELY  AFFECTED.  WE CAUTION THE READER
THAT THESE  RISK  FACTORS  MAY NOT BE  EXHAUSTIVE.  WE OPERATE IN A  CONTINUALLY
CHANGING BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT, AND NEW RISK FACTORS EMERGE FROM TIME TO TIME. WE
CANNOT PREDICT SUCH NEW RISK FACTORS,  AND WE CANNOT ASSESS THE EFFECT,  IF ANY,
OF SUCH NEW RISK FACTORS ON OUR BUSINESSES OR THE EXTENT TO WHICH ANY FACTOR, OR
COMBINATION OF FACTORS, MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE
PROJECTED  IN  ANY   FORWARD-LOOKING   STATEMENTS   CONTAINED  IN  THIS  REPORT.
ACCORDINGLY,   FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS  SHOULD  NOT  BE  RELIED  UPON  AS  A
PREDICTION OF ACTUAL RESULTS. IN ADDITION,  OUR MANAGEMENT'S ESTIMATES OF FUTURE
OPERATING  RESULTS ARE BASED ON THE CURRENT  COMPLEMENT OF BUSINESSES,  WHICH IS
CONSTANTLY  SUBJECT TO CHANGE AS  MANAGEMENT  IMPLEMENTS  ITS FIX,  SELL OR GROW
STRATEGY.


We May Continue To Incur Operating Losses.

     We started  operations  in 1984 and as of  September  30,  2002,  we had an
accumulated  deficit of $250.9 million. We incurred net losses of $129.8 million
in fiscal 2002,  $12.3  million in fiscal 2001 and $25.5 million in fiscal 2000.
In addition,  as a result of the continuing  downturn in the economy,  we expect
that overall revenues will remain flat, or at best,  modestly increase in fiscal
2003  compared  to  fiscal  2002.  While  we have  reduced  our  cost  structure
substantially, we may continue to lose money. Many of our expenses, particularly
those relating to capital equipment, debt service and manufacturing overhead are
fixed.  Accordingly,  lower  revenue  causes  our fixed  production  costs to be
allocated across reduced production  volumes,  which adversely affects our gross
margin and  profitability.  Therefore,  we expect to continue to incur operating
losses until revenues  increase.  We cannot  currently  predict  whether or when
demand will  strengthen  across our product  lines or how quickly our  customers
will consume their inventories of our products.


Reduced Customer Lead Times Means We Are Less Able To Forecast  Revenues And, As
A Result, May Be Unable To Accurately Predict Growth And Manage Our Cost.

     Several  of our  customers  have  reduced  the lead times they give us when
ordering  product from us. While this trend has enabled us to reduce  inventory,
it also  restricts  our  ability to forecast  revenues.  If our sales and profit
margins do not increase to support the higher  levels of operating  expenses and
if our  new  product  offerings  are not  successful,  our  business,  financial
condition,  results  of  operations  and  cash  flows  could be  materially  and
adversely affected.


We Will Lose Sales If We Are Unable To Obtain Government Authorization To Export
Our Products.

     Exports of our  products  to  certain  destinations,  such as the  People's
Republic of China, India, Russia,  Malaysia and Taiwan, may require pre-shipment
authorization  from  U.S.  export  control   authorities,   including  the  U.S.
Departments of Commerce and State.  Authorization  may be conditioned on end-use
restrictions.   On  certain  occasions,   we  have  been  denied  authorization,
particularly with respect to the People's Republic of China.  Failure to receive
these  authorizations  may materially  and adversely  affect our revenues and in
turn our business,  financial  condition,  results of operations  and cash flows
from international sales.

     Our  photovoltaics  business is  particularly  sensitive to export  control
issues. All of our photovoltaic  products are  export-controlled  and subject to
the jurisdiction of the U.S.  Department of Commerce.  In addition,  many of our
potential customers are located in countries,  like Russia, India and Argentina,
for which  export  licenses are  required.  Moreover,  given the current  global
political  climate,   obtaining  export  licenses  may  be  more  difficult  and
time-consuming  than  in  the  past.  Failure  to  obtain  export  licenses  for
photovoltaic    shipments   could   significantly   reduce   revenues   of   our
materials-related  segment  and  could  have a  material  adverse  effect on our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

                                                                              23

<PAGE>

We Have Substantial  Debt And If We Are Unable To Generate  Sufficient Cash Flow
Or  Otherwise  Obtain  Funds,  We May  Not Be Able To Pay  Our  Debt  And  Other
Obligations.

     In May 2001, we sold $175.0 million of convertible  subordinated  notes due
in 2006 in a private  placement  for resale to qualified  institutional  buyers.
Approximately,  $161.7 million of these notes is currently outstanding.  We also
have  approximately  $3.6  million of  guarantee  obligations  in respect of the
GELcore joint venture. In addition,  we may incur additional debt in the future.
This significant amount of debt could, among other things:

     o    make it difficult  for us to make  payments on the notes and any other
          debt we may have;

     o    make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary  future financing for
          working capital,  capital  expenditures,  debt service requirements or
          other purposes;

     o    require  us to  dedicate a  substantial  portion of our cash flow from
          operations  to service our debt,  which would reduce the amount of our
          cash flow available for other purposes,  including working capital and
          capital expenditures;

     o    limit our  flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our
          business; and

     o    make us  more  vulnerable  in the  event  of a  further  or  continued
          downturn in our business.

     Furthermore,  if our cash flow is inadequate to meet our  obligations or we
are unable to generate  sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary
to make required payments on the notes or our other obligations,  we would be in
default under the terms thereof.  Default under the note indenture  would permit
the holders of the notes to accelerate the maturity of the notes and could cause
defaults under future  indebtedness we may incur.  Any such default would have a
material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be
able to repay  amounts  due in respect of the notes if payment of the notes were
to be accelerated  following the occurrence of an event of default as defined in
the note indenture.


Our Success Depends On Our Ability To Introduce New Products On A Timely Basis.

     We compete in markets characterized by rapid technological change, evolving
industry  standards and  continuous  improvements  in products.  Due to constant
changes in these markets,  our future success  depends on our ability to improve
our manufacturing processes, systems and products. To remain competitive we must
continually  introduce new and improved  products as well as production  systems
with higher capacity and better production yields.  Furthermore, we have reduced
research and  development  spending in fiscal  2002,  and we expect to reduce it
further in fiscal 2003, which could  negatively  impact our ability to introduce
new products. Our business,  financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows may be materially and adversely affected if:

     o    we are unable to improve our existing products on a timely basis;
     o    our new  products  are not  introduced  on a  timely  basis  or do not
          achieve sufficient market penetration; or
     o    our new products experience reliability or quality problems.


Shifts In  Industry-wide  Demands And  Inventories  Could Result In  Significant
Inventory Write-downs.

     The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles
of the end products  into which our products are  designed.  Products with short
life cycles require us to manage  production and inventory  levels  closely.  We
cannot assure  investors that obsolete or excess  inventories,  which may result
from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or
the  estimated  life  cycles of the end  products  into which our  products  are
designed,  will not affect us beyond the inventory  charges that we have already
taken during fiscal year 2002.

                                                                              24
<PAGE>

The Time And Costs Of  Developing  New  Products  May  Exceed Our Budget And Our
Products May Not Be Commercially Successful.

     We have  recently  introduced  a number of new  products  and  expect to be
introducing additional new products in the near future. The commercialization of
new products  involves  substantial  expenditures  in research and  development,
production and marketing. We may be unable to successfully design or manufacture
these new products and may have difficulty penetrating new markets.

     Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required
and  the  costs  involved  in  achieving  certain   research,   development  and
engineering objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and
estimated product development schedules may be extended. Our business, financial
condition,  results of operations and cash flows could suffer if we incur budget
overruns or delays in our research and development efforts.


We May Engage In Acquisitions  That May Harm Our Operating  Results,  Dilute Our
Shareholders And Cause Us To Incur Debt.

     We may pursue acquisitions to acquire new technologies, products or service
offerings. Future acquisitions by us may involve the following:

          o    use of significant amounts of cash;
          o    potentially   dilutive   issuances   of  equity   securities   on
               potentially unfavorable items; and
          o    incurrence of debt on potentially  unfavorable terms, as well as,
               amortization expenses related to other intangible assets.

     In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:

          o    inability to achieve anticipated synergies;
          o    difficulties in the integration of the operations,  technologies,
               products and personnel of the acquired company;
          o    diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;
          o    risks of  entering  markets in which we have no or limited  prior
               experience; and
          o    potential  loss of key  employees of the  acquired  company or of
               EMCORE.

     From  time to  time,  we  have  engaged  in  discussions  with  acquisition
candidates regarding potential  acquisitions of product lines,  technologies and
businesses.  If  acquisitions  occur,  we cannot be certain  that our  business,
operating  results and financial  condition will not be materially and adversely
affected.

     With the Tecstar acquisition, EMCORE has fully integrated the production of
solar panels using EMCORE's solar cells.  However, if EMCORE is unable to secure
contractual  solar panel  supply  agreements  for  recently  approved  satellite
builds,  EMCORE's  revenues could be significantly  reduced and it could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition,  results of operations and cash flows
for the materials-related segment of our business.


Our Rapid Growth Places A Strain On Our Resources.

     We have  experienced  rapid growth,  even after giving effect to our recent
downsizing and  restructuring.  For example,  in March 2002, we acquired Tecstar
located  in City of  Industry,  California  and  hired  approximately  80 former
Tecstar  employees.  This  growth  has  placed  and  will  continue  to  place a
significant strain on our management,  financial,  sales and other employees and
on our internal  systems and controls.  If we are unable to  effectively  manage
multiple facilities and a joint venture in geographically distant locations, our
business,  financial  condition,  results of operations  and cash flows could be
materially and adversely affected.

                                                                              25

<PAGE>

Our Industry Is Rapidly Changing.

     The compound semiconductor industry is changing rapidly due to, among other
things, continuous technological  improvements in products and evolving industry
standards.  This  industry  is  marked  by the  continuous  introduction  of new
products and increased  capacity for services  similar to those  provided by us.
Future technological  advances in the compound semiconductor industry may result
in the  availability  of new  products or increase  the  efficiency  of existing
products.  If a  technology  becomes  available  that is more cost  effective or
creates a superior  product,  we may be unable to access such  technology or its
use may  involve  substantial  capital  expenditures,  which we may be unable to
finance. There can be no assurance that existing, proposed or as yet undeveloped
technologies will not render our technology less profitable or that we will have
available  the financial and other  resources  necessary to compete  effectively
against companies  possessing such technologies.  There can be no assurance that
we will be able to adapt to technological  changes or offer competitive products
on a timely or cost effective basis.


Fluctuations In Our Quarterly  Operating Results May Negatively Impact Our Stock
Price.

     Our revenues and operating results may vary  significantly  from quarter to
quarter  due to a number  of  factors  particular  to  EMCORE  and the  compound
semiconductor  industry.  Not all of these  factors  are in our  control.  These
factors include:

          o    the volume and timing of orders and  payments  for our  products,
               particularly  TurboDisc  systems,  which have an average  selling
               price in excess of $1 million;
          o    the timing of our  announcements and introduction of new products
               and of similar announcements by our competitors;
          o    downturns in the market for our customers' products;
          o    regional  economic  conditions,  particularly  in Asia  where  we
               derive a significant portion of our revenues;
          o    price volatility in the compound semiconductor industry; and
          o    changes in product mix.

     These  factors may cause our  operating  results  for future  periods to be
below the  expectations  of analysts and investors.  This may cause a decline in
the price of our common stock.


Our Joint Venture  Partner,  Who Has Control Of The Venture,  May Make Decisions
That We Do Not Agree With And That Adversely Affect Our Net Income.

     We do not have a  majority  interest  in our  joint  venture  with  General
Electric  Lighting.  A  board  of  managers  governs  this  joint  venture  with
representatives  from both General  Electric  Lighting and us. Many  fundamental
decisions must be approved by both parties to the joint venture,  which means we
will be unable to direct the  operation  and  direction  of this  joint  venture
without the agreement of our joint venture partner. If we are unable to agree on
important  issues with the joint  venture  partner,  the  business of that joint
venture  may be  delayed or  interrupted,  which may,  in turn,  materially  and
adversely affect our business,  financial  condition,  results of operations and
cash flows.

     We have  devoted and will be  required  to  continue to devote  significant
funds and  technologies  to our joint  venture  to  develop  and  enhance  their
products. In addition, our joint venture will require that some of our employees
devote much of their time to joint venture projects. This will place a strain on
our management,  scientific, financial and sales employees. If our joint venture
is  unsuccessful  in developing  and  marketing  their  products,  our business,
financial condition,  results of operations and cash flows may be materially and
adversely affected.

     General  Electric  Lighting  and EMCORE have agreed that our joint  venture
will be the sole  vehicle  for each  party's  participation  in the solid  state
lighting  market.  General  Electric  Lighting  and EMCORE  have also  agreed to
several  limitations during the life of the venture and thereafter  relating how
each of us can make use of the joint  venture's  technology.  One consequence of
these limitations is that in certain  circumstances,  such as a material default
by us or certain  sales of our  interest in the joint  venture,  we would not be
permitted  to use the joint  venture's  technology  to compete  against  General
Electric Lighting in the solid state lighting market.

                                                                              26
<PAGE>

Since A Large Percentage of Our Revenues Are From Foreign Sales,  Certain Export
Risks May Disproportionately Affect Our Revenues.

     Sales  to  customers  located  outside  the  United  States  accounted  for
approximately  33.0% of our  revenues in fiscal  2002,  47.7% of our revenues in
fiscal 2001 and 38.6% of our revenues in fiscal 2000. Sales to customers in Asia
represent the majority of our international sales. We believe that international
sales will  continue to account for a  significant  percentage  of our revenues.
Because of this, the following  export risks may  disproportionately  affect our
revenues:

     o    political and economic  instability  may inhibit export of our systems
          and devices and limit potential customers' access to U.S. dollars in a
          country or region in which our customers are located;
     o    shipping and installation costs of our systems may increase;
     o    we may  experience  difficulties  in the  timeliness  of collection of
          foreign  accounts  receivable  and be forced to write off  receivables
          from foreign customers;
     o    a strong  dollar  may make our  systems  less  attractive  to  foreign
          purchasers   who  may  decide  to   postpone   making   such   capital
          expenditures;
     o    tariffs and other  barriers may make our systems and devices less cost
          competitive;
     o    we may have  difficulty  in staffing and  managing  our  international
          operations;
     o    the laws of certain foreign  countries may not adequately  protect our
          trade  secrets and  intellectual  property  and may be  burdensome  to
          comply with; and
     o    potentially  adverse tax  consequences  to our  customers may make our
          systems and devices not cost-competitive.


Our  Operating  Results  Could Be  Harmed If We Lose  Access To Sole Or  Limited
Sources Of Materials Or Services.

     We currently  obtain some  components  and  services for our products  from
limited or single sources. We generally do not carry significant  inventories of
any raw materials. Because we often do not account for a significant part of our
vendors'  business,  we may not have access to  sufficient  capacity  from these
vendors  in  periods of high  demand.  In  addition,  we risk  having  important
suppliers  terminate  product  lines,  change  business  focus or even go out of
business.  If we were to change any of our  limited or sole source  vendors,  we
would be required to re-qualify each new vendor.  Re-qualification could prevent
or  delay  product  shipments  that  could  negatively  affect  our  results  of
operations. In addition, our reliance on these vendors may negatively affect our
production if the  components  vary in quality or quantity.  If we are unable to
obtain timely  deliveries of sufficient  components of acceptable  quality or if
the prices of components for which we do not have alternative  sources increase,
our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be
materially and adversely affected.


Our Products Are Difficult To Manufacture And Our Production  Could Be Disrupted
If We Are Unable To Avoid Manufacturing Difficulties.

     We  manufacture  all  of  our  wafers  and  devices  in  our  manufacturing
facilities.  Minute impurities,  difficulties in the production process, defects
in the layering of the devices' constituent  compounds,  wafer breakage or other
factors can cause a substantial  percentage of wafers and devices to be rejected
or numerous devices on each wafer to be non-functional. These factors can result
in lower than expected  production  yields,  which would delay product shipments
and  may  materially  and  adversely  affect  our  operating  results.  We  have
experienced  difficulties in achieving planned yields in the past,  particularly
in  pre-production  and upon initial  commencement of full  production  volumes,
which have  adversely  affected our gross  margins.  Because the majority of our
costs of manufacture are relatively  fixed, the number of shippable  devices per
wafer for a given product is critical to our financial results. Therefore, it is
critical  for us to  improve  the  number  of  shippable  product  per wafer and
increase  the  production  volume of wafers in order to maintain and improve our
results of operations.  Additionally, because we manufacture all of our products
at our facilities in Somerset, New Jersey,  Albuquerque,  New Mexico and City of
Industry,  California,  any interruption in  manufacturing  resulting from fire,
natural disaster, equipment failures or otherwise could materially and adversely
affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

                                                                              27

<PAGE>

We Face Lengthy  Sales And  Qualifications  Cycles For Our Products And, In Many
Cases,  Must  Invest A  Substantial  Amount Of Time And Funds  Before We Receive
Orders.

     Sales of our  TurboDisc  systems  primarily  depend upon the  decision of a
prospective  customer to increase its  manufacturing  capacity,  which typically
involves a significant  capital  commitment by the customer.  Customers  usually
place orders with us between three to nine months, or longer,  after our initial
contact with them. We often  experience  delays in obtaining system sales orders
while  customers  evaluate and receive  internal  approvals  for the purchase of
these systems.  These delays may include the time  necessary to plan,  design or
complete a new or expanded compound  semiconductor  fabrication facility. Due to
these factors,  we expend substantial funds and sales,  marketing and management
efforts  to  sell  our  compound   semiconductor   production   systems.   These
expenditures and efforts may not result in sales.

     In order to expand our materials production capabilities, we have dedicated
a number of our  TurboDisc  systems to the  manufacture  of wafers and  devices.
Several of our products  are  currently  being tested to determine  whether they
meet customer or industry  specifications.  During this qualification period, we
invest significant resources and dedicate substantial production capacity to the
manufacture  of these new products,  prior to any  commitment to purchase by the
prospective  customer  and  without  generating  significant  revenues  from the
qualification  process. If we are unable to meet these  specifications or do not
receive sufficient orders to profitably use the dedicated  production  capacity,
our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be
materially and adversely affected.

     Our  historical  and  future  budgets  for  operating   expenses,   capital
expenditures,  operating  leases  and  service  contracts  are  based  upon  our
assumptions as to the anticipated market acceptance of our products.  Because of
the lengthy lead time  required for our product  development  and the changes in
technology that typically occur during such period,  it is difficult to estimate
customer  demand  for a  product  accurately.  If our  products  do not  achieve
expected  customer  demand,  our  business,   financial  condition,  results  of
operation and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.


Industry  Demand For Skilled  Employees,  Particularly  Scientific And Technical
Personnel With Compound Semiconductor Experience,  Exceeds The Number Of Skilled
Personnel Available.

     Our future success  depends,  in part, on our ability to attract and retain
certain  key  personnel,   including  scientific,   operational  and  management
personnel.  The  competition  for  attracting  and  retaining  these  employees,
especially scientists, is intense. Because of this intense competition for these
skilled employees,  we may be unable to retain our existing personnel or attract
additional  qualified  employees  in the future.  If we are unable to retain our
skilled  employees  and attract  additional  qualified  employees  to the extent
necessary to keep up with any  expansion,  our  business,  financial  condition,
results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.


Protecting Our Trade Secrets And Obtaining Patent  Protection Is Critical To Our
Ability To Effectively Compete For Business.

     Our success and competitive position depend on protecting our trade secrets
and other intellectual  property.  Our strategy is to rely both on trade secrets
and patents to protect  our  manufacturing  and sales  processes  and  products.
Reliance on trade  secrets is only an  effective  business  practice  insofar as
trade secrets  remain  undisclosed  and a proprietary  product or process is not
reverse  engineered  or  independently  developed.  We take certain  measures to
protect our trade secrets,  including executing  non-disclosure  agreements with
our employees,  our joint venture partner,  customers and suppliers.  If parties
breach these agreements or the measures we take are not properly implemented, we
may not have an  adequate  remedy.  Disclosure  of our trade  secrets or reverse
engineering of our proprietary  products,  processes or devices could materially
and adversely affect our business,  financial  condition,  results of operations
and cash flows.

     There is also no  assurance  that any patents  will afford us  commercially
significant  protection  of our  technologies  or  that we  will  have  adequate
resources to enforce our patents.  We are actively  pursuing  patents on some of
our recent inventions.  In addition, the laws of certain other countries may not
protect our intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws.

                                                                              28
<PAGE>

Our Failure To Obtain Or Maintain The Right To Use Certain Intellectual Property
May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results.

     The compound semiconductor, optoelectronics, and fiber optic communications
industries are characterized by frequent  litigation  regarding patent and other
intellectual property rights. From time to time we have received and may receive
in the future,  notice of claims of infringement  of other parties'  proprietary
rights and licensing offers to commercialize third party patent rights. Although
we are not currently  involved in any  litigation  relating to our  intellectual
property, there can be no assurance that:

     o    infringement  claims  (or claims for  indemnification  resulting  from
          infringement  claims)  will not be  asserted  against  us or that such
          claims will not be successful;

     o    future assertions will not result in an injunction against the sale of
          infringing products or otherwise significantly impair our business and
          results of operations;

     o    any  patent  owned  by us will  not be  invalidated,  circumvented  or
          challenged; or

     o    we will not be required to obtain  licenses,  the expense of which may
          adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.

     In  addition,  effective  copyright  and  trade  secret  protection  may be
unavailable or limited in certain  foreign  countries.  Litigation,  which could
result  in  substantial  cost  to us  and  diversion  of our  resources,  may be
necessary to defend our rights or defend us against claimed  infringement of the
rights of others.


Interruptions In Our Business And A Significant Loss Of Sales To Asia May Result
If Our Primary Asian  Distributor  Fails To  Effectively  Market And Service Our
Products.

     We rely on a single marketing,  distribution and service  provider,  Hakuto
Co. Ltd. to market and service many of our systems-related products in China and
Japan. Hakuto is one of our shareholders and until this year, Hakuto's president
was a member of our  Board of  Directors  since  1997.  We have  distributorship
agreements  with Hakuto  which  expire in March 2008 and give  Hakuto  exclusive
distribution  rights for  certain of our  systems-related  products in Japan and
China.  Hakuto's  failure to  effectively  market and  service  our  products or
termination of our relationship  with Hakuto could result in significant  delays
or  interruption  in our  marketing  and service  programs  in Asia.  This could
materially and adversely affect our business,  financial  condition,  results of
operations and cash flows.


Our  Management's  Stock  Ownership  Gives  Them The Power To  Control  Business
Affairs  And  Prevent  A  Takeover  That  Could Be  Beneficial  To  Unaffiliated
Shareholders.

     Certain members of our management, specifically Thomas J. Russell, Chairman
of our Board, Reuben F. Richards, Jr., President,  Chief Executive Officer and a
director,  and Robert Louis-Dreyfus,  a director,  are former members of Jesup &
Lamont Merchant  Partners,  L.L.C. They collectively  beneficially own more than
20% of our  common  stock.  Accordingly,  such  persons  will  continue  to hold
sufficient  voting power to control our business and affairs for the foreseeable
future.  This  concentration  of ownership may also have the effect of delaying,
deferring or  preventing a change in control of our company,  which could have a
material adverse effect on our stock price.


Unsuccessful  Control Of The Hazardous Raw Materials  Used In Our  Manufacturing
Process  Could Result In Costly  Remediation  Fees,  Penalties Or Damages  Under
Environmental And Safety Regulations.

     The production of wafers and devices involves the use of certain  hazardous
raw materials,  including, but not limited to, ammonia,  gallium,  phosphine and
arsine. If our control systems are unsuccessful in preventing a release of these
materials into the environment or other adverse environmental  conditions occur,
we could  experience  interruptions  in our  operations  and  incur  substantial
remediation and other costs. Failure to comply with environmental and health and
safety laws and  regulations  may materially and adversely  affect our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

                                                                              29
<PAGE>

Our  Business  Or Our Stock  Price  Could Be  Adversely  Affected By Issuance Of
Preferred Stock.

     Our board of directors  is  authorized  to issue up to 5,882,352  shares of
preferred  stock  with such  dividend  rates,  liquidation  preferences,  voting
rights,  redemption  and  conversion  terms  and  privileges  as  our  board  of
directors,  in its sole  discretion,  may  determine.  The issuance of shares of
preferred  stock may  result in a decrease  in the value or market  price of our
common stock,  or our board of directors  could use the preferred stock to delay
or discourage  hostile bids for control of us in which  shareholders may receive
premiums for their  common  stock or to make the possible  sale of EMCORE or the
removal of our management  more  difficult.  The issuance of shares of preferred
stock  could  adversely  affect the voting  and other  rights of the  holders of
common stock.


Certain  Provisions Of New Jersey Law And Our Charter May Make A Takeover Of Our
Company  Difficult  Even If Such  Takeover  Could Be  Beneficial  To Some Of Our
Shareholders.

     New Jersey law and our certificate of  incorporation,  as amended,  contain
certain  provisions  that could  delay or prevent a  takeover  attempt  that our
shareholders  may  consider in their best  interests.  Our board of directors is
divided into three classes.  Directors are elected to serve staggered three-year
terms and are not subject to removal except for cause by the vote of the holders
of at least 80% of our capital  stock.  In addition,  approval by the holders of
80% of our voting stock is required  for certain  business  combinations  unless
these transactions meet certain fair price criteria and procedural  requirements
or are approved by two-thirds of our continuing directors.  We may in the future
adopt other  measures  that may have the effect of delaying or  discouraging  an
unsolicited takeover, even if the takeover were at a premium price or favored by
a  majority  of  unaffiliated  shareholders.  Certain of these  measures  may be
adopted without any further vote or action by our shareholders.


The Price Of Our  Common  Stock Has  Fluctuated  Widely In The Last Year And May
Fluctuate Widely In The Future.

     Our  common  stock is  traded  on the  NASDAQ  National  Market,  which has
experienced  and  may  continue  to  experience  significant  price  and  volume
fluctuations  that could  adversely  affect the market price of our common stock
without  regard to our  operating  performance.  In  addition,  we believe  that
factors such as quarterly  fluctuations  in financial  results,  earnings  below
analysts'  estimates,  and financial  performance and other  activities of other
publicly traded companies in the semiconductor industry could cause the price of
our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent periods, our
common  stock,  the stock market in general,  and the market for shares of small
capitalization  and semiconductor  industry-related  stocks in particular,  have
experienced  extreme price  fluctuations  which have often been unrelated to the
operating  performance of affected  companies.  Any similar  fluctuations in the
future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

     Our stock price has  fluctuated  widely in the last year and may  fluctuate
widely in the future. Since September 30, 2001, our stock price has been as high
as $17.04  per share and as low as $0.98 per share.  Volatility  in the price of
our common stock may be caused by other  factors  outside of our control and may
be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results.


The  Markets  In Which  We  Compete  Are  Highly  Competitive.  An  Increase  In
Competition Would Limit Our Ability To Maintain Or Increase Our Market Share.

     We face substantial  competition from a number of companies,  many of which
have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing and technical resources. Larger
competitors could spend more on research and development, which could give those
competitors an advantage in meeting customer demand. We expect that existing and
new  competitors  will  improve the design of their  existing  products and will
introduce   new  products  with  enhanced   performance   characteristics.   The
introduction of new products or more efficient  production of existing  products
by our competitors  could result in price  reductions and increases in expenses,
and reduce market  acceptance of our products,  which could  diminish our market
share and gross margins.

