Item 1.  Business

Company Overview

     EMCORE  Corporation,  a  New  Jersey  Corporation,  designs,  develops  and
manufactures  compound  semiconductor  materials and is a leading  developer and
manufacturer of the tools and manufacturing processes used to fabricate compound
semiconductor  wafers  and  devices.   Established  in  1986,  EMCORE  offers  a
comprehensive  portfolio  of  compound  semiconductor  products  for the rapidly
expanding  broadband  and  wireless  communications  and  solid  state  lighting
markets.  EMCORE's  product  philosophy  embodies  state of the art  technology,
material  science  expertise  and a shared  vision of our  customers'  goals and
objectives  to be leaders and pioneers in the rapidly  growing world of compound
semiconductors.   EMCORE's  product  line  features:   optical   components  for
high-speed  data  and  telecommunications;  solar  cells  for  global  satellite
communications;  electronic materials for high bandwidth communications systems,
such as Internet access and wireless  telephones;  MOCVD tools for the growth of
GaAs, AIGaAs, InP, InGaP, InGaAIP, InGaAsP, GaN, InGaN, AIGaN, and SiC epitaxial
materials used in numerous  applications,  including data and telecommunications
modules,  cellular  telephones,  solar  cells  and  high  brightness  LEDs.  Our
customers include Agilent Technologies Ltd., AMP, Inc., Anadigics Inc., Corning,
Inc.,  General  Motors  Corp.,   Hewlett  Packard  Co.,  Honeywell  Int'l  Inc.,
Boeing-Spectrolab, JDS Uniphase Corp., Loral Space & Communications Ltd., Lucent
Technologies,  Inc.,  Motorola,  Inc., Nortel Networks Corp., Siemens AG's Osram
GmbH  subsidiary,  TriQuint  Semiconductor,  Inc.  and more  than a dozen of the
largest  electronics  manufacturers  in Japan.  For  further  information  about
EMCORE, visit http://www.emcore.com.

Industry Overview

     Recent advances in information technologies have created a growing need for
efficient,  high-performance  electronic  systems  that  operate  at  very  high
frequencies,   have  increased  storage  capacity,   computational  and  display
capabilities and can be produced  cost-effectively in commercial volumes. In the
past,  electronic  systems  manufacturers  have  relied on  advances  in silicon
semiconductor  technology  to meet many of these  demands.  However,  the newest
generation  of  high-performance   electronic  and  optoelectronic  applications
require certain functions that are generally not achievable using  silicon-based
components.

     Compound  semiconductors have emerged as an enabling technology to meet the
complex  requirements of today's  advanced  information  systems.  Many compound
semiconductor  materials have unique physical properties that allow electrons to
move at least four times faster than through silicon-based  devices.  Advantages
of compound semiconductor devices over silicon devices include:

     o    higher operating speeds;
     o    lower power consumption;
     o    reduced noise and distortion; and
     o    light emitting and detecting optoelectronic properties.

     Compound  semiconductor devices can be used to perform individual functions
as discrete devices,  such as VCSELs, RF materials,  solar cells, HB LEDs and MR
sensors.  Compound  semiconductor  devices can also be combined into  integrated
circuits,  such as transmitters,  receivers and alphanumeric displays.  Although
compound  semiconductors  are more expensive to manufacture  than  silicon-based
devices,   electronics   manufacturers  are  increasingly  integrating  compound
semiconductor devices into their products in order to achieve higher performance
in applications targeted for a wide variety of markets.  These include satellite
communications,     data    communications,     telecommunications,     wireless
communications,  consumer and automotive electronics, computers and peripherals,
and lighting.

     The  following  factors have  resulted in an increased  demand for compound
semiconductor  products and systems that enable electronic systems manufacturers
to reach the market faster with large volumes of  high-performance  products and
applications:

     o    widespread  deployment of fiber optic  networks and the increasing use
          of optical systems within these networks;
     o    launch of new wireless services and wireless high-speed data systems;
     o    rapid build-out of satellite communications systems;
     o    increasing use of infrared  emitters and optical detectors in computer
          systems;
     o    emergence of advanced consumer electronics applications,  such as DVDs
          and  flat  panel  displays;
     o    increasing use of high-performance  electronic devices in automobiles;
          and
     o    anticipated  conversion  to HB LEDs  from  incandescent,  halogen  and
          compact fluorescent lighting.

     The  following  chart  summarizes  the  principal   markets,   examples  of
applications for compound  semiconductor  devices,  products incorporating these
devices and certain benefits and characteristics of these devices.
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Market                    Representative Applications        Products                 Benefits/Characteristics
<S>                       <C>                                <C>                      <C>
Data communications       High-speed fiber optic networks    VCSEL components         Increased network capacity
                            and optical links (including       and arrays             Increased data transmission
                            Gigabit Ethernet,                HB LEDs                    speeds
                            asynchronous transfer mode       Lasers                   Increased bandwidth
                            or ATM, and FibreChannel         RF materials
                            networks)

Wireless                  Cellular telephones                HB LEDs                  Improved display visibility
Communication             Pagers                             RF materials             Improved signal to noise
                          PCS handsets                                                  performance
                          Direct broadcast systems                                    Lower power consumption
                                                                                      Increased network capacity
                                                                                      Reduced network congestion
                                                                                      Extended battery life

Telecommunications        High capacity fiber optic trunk    VCSEL components         Increased data transmission
                            lines                              and arrays               speeds
                                                             Lasers                   Increased bandwidth
                                                             RF materials

Satellite                 Power modules for satellites       Solar cells              Radiation tolerance
Communications            Satellite to ground                RF materials             Conversion of more light
                            communication                                               to power than silicon
                                                                                      Reduced launch costs
                                                                                      Increased bandwidth

Lighting                  Flat panel displays                HB LEDs                  Lower power consumption
                          Solid state lighting               Miniature lamps          Longer life
                          Outdoor signage and display
                          Digital readout signals

Automotive electronics    Engine sensors                     MR sensors               Reduced weight
                          Dashboard displays                 HB LEDs                  Lower power consumption
                          Indicator lights                                            Lower emissions
                          Antilock brake systems

Computers and             Local area networks                VCSEL components         Increased data transmission speeds
Peripherals               Chip-to-chip and board-to-board      and arrays             Increased bandwidth
                            optical links                    Transceivers

Consumer electronics      DVDs                               HB LEDs                  Improved display visibility
                          CD-Roms                            VCSEL components         High-speed data transmission
                          Telephones                           and arrays             Low power requirements
                          Radios                             Integrated circuits
                          Calculators                        Lasers
</TABLE>

Compound Semiconductor Process Technology

     Compound  semiconductors  are composed of two or more  elements and usually
consist of a metal such as gallium,  aluminum or indium and a non-metal  such as
arsenic,  phosphorous  or nitrogen.  The  resulting  compounds  include  gallium
arsenide,  indium  phosphide,  gallium  nitride,  indium  antimonide  and indium
aluminum phosphide.  The performance  characteristics of compound semiconductors
are  dependent  on the  composition  of  these  compounds.  Many  of the  unique
properties  of compound  semiconductor  devices are  achieved by the layering of
different  compound  semiconductor  materials in the same  device.  This layered
structure  creates an optimal  configuration to permit the emission or detection
of light and the detection of magnetic fields.

     Accordingly,  the  composition and properties of each layer and the control
of the layering  process,  or epitaxy,  are  fundamental  to the  performance of
advanced  electronic and  optoelectronic  compound  semiconductor  devices.  The
variation of thickness and  composition  of layers  determines the intensity and
color of the light emitted or detected and the  efficiency of power  conversion.
The ability to vary the intensity,  color and efficiency of light generation and
detection enables compound  semiconductor devices to be used in a broad range of
advanced information systems.

     Compound   semiconductor  device   manufacturers   predominantly  use  four
different  methods to deposit  compound  materials:  (i) molecular beam epitaxy;
(ii) vapor phase  epitaxy;  (iii) liquid phase  epitaxy;  and (iv) metal organic
chemical  vapor  deposition  ("MOCVD").   The  use  of  molecular  beam  epitaxy
technology  can  yield  wafers  having  high  thickness   uniformity.   Compound
semiconductor  materials  fabricated  using vapor phase  epitaxy or liquid phase
epitaxy technologies often have high electronic and optical properties. However,
due to the nature of the  underlying  processes,  none of these  methods  can be
easily  scaled  up to  high  volume  production,  which  is  necessary  for  the
commercial  viability  of  compound  semiconductor  devices.  All of these  four
methods used to  manufacture  compound  semiconductor  devices  pose  technical,
training  and  safety  challenges  that are not  present in the  manufacture  of
silicon devices.  The production  systems typically  require expensive  reactant
materials,  use of certain  toxic  chemicals  and tight  control  over  numerous
manufacturing parameters.  The key differences between MOCVD and the three other
methods are that compound  semiconductor wafers fabricated using MOCVD generally
possess a better combination of uniformity and optical and electronic properties
and are easier to produce in high volumes than wafers  manufactured by the three
more  traditional  methods.   Currently,  MOCVD  technology  is  being  used  to
manufacture a broad range of compound semiconductor devices.

     Historically,  manufacturers  that use  compound  semiconductor  devices in
their  products  have met research,  pilot  production  and capacity  needs with
in-house systems and  technologies.  However,  as the need for the production of
commercial volumes of high-performance  compound  semiconductor  devices and the
variety of these devices increase,  manufacturers are often unable to meet these
requirements using in-house solutions.  In response to these growing demands for
higher volumes of a broad range of higher performance devices, manufacturers are
increasingly  turning  to  outside  vendors  to meet  their  needs for  compound
semiconductor wafers and devices.

The EMCORE Solution

     EMCORE  provides  a broad  range of  compound  semiconductor  products  and
services intended to meet its customers' diverse technology requirements. EMCORE
has developed  extensive  materials science  expertise,  process  technology and
MOCVD  production  systems to address its customers' needs and believes that its
proprietary  TurboDisc(R)  deposition  technology makes possible one of the most
cost-effective  production  processes for the commercial  volume  manufacture of
high-performance  compound  semiconductor  wafers  and  devices.  This  platform
technology  provides the basis for the  production  of various types of compound
semiconductor wafers and devices and enables EMCORE to address the critical need
of manufacturers to cost-effectively  get to the market faster with high volumes
of new and improved high-performance  products.  EMCORE's compound semiconductor
products and services include:

     o    materials and process development;
     o    design and development of devices;
     o    MOCVD production systems; and
     o    manufacture of wafers and devices in high volumes.

     Customers can take advantage of EMCORE's vertically  integrated approach by
purchasing   custom-designed  wafers  and  devices  from  EMCORE,  or  they  can
manufacture  their own  devices  in-house  using a TurboDisc  production  system
configured to their specific needs.

Strategy

     EMCORE's  objective  is to  capitalize  on its  position  in MOCVD  process
technology  and  production  systems to become the leading  supplier of compound
semiconductor  wafers,  devices  and  production  systems.  The key  elements of
EMCORE's strategy include:

     Apply Core Technology  Across  Multiple  Applications.  EMCORE  continually
leverages its  proprietary  core  technology to develop  compound  semiconductor
products for multiple  applications  in a variety of markets.  These  activities
include  developing new products for targeted  applications as well as expanding
existing products into new applications. For example, EMCORE's array transceiver
program  is  being  expanded  to meet  customer  demands  for a new  transponder
product.  Other  existing  products,  which  EMCORE  intends to introduce in new
applications, include VCSELs for communications products and HB LEDs for broader
lighting applications;

     Target High Growth  Market  Opportunities.  EMCORE's  strategy is to target
high growth market  opportunities  where  performance  characteristics  and high
volume  production  efficiencies can give compound  semiconductors a competitive
advantage  over other devices.  Historically,  while  technologically  superior,
compound  semiconductors  have not been widely  deployed  because  they are more
expensive to manufacture than  silicon-based  semiconductors  and other existing
solutions.  EMCORE believes that as compound semiconductor  production costs are
reduced,  new customers will be compelled to use these products because of their
higher performance characteristics.  For example, EMCORE has reduced the average
cost of compound  semiconductor  solar cells to the point  where  customers  are
replacing  silicon-based solar cells because of the compound semiconductor solar
cells' higher  overall  efficiency,  better  end-of-life  performance  and lower
weight;

     Partner  with Key  Industry  Participants.  EMCORE  seeks to  identify  and
develop long-term  relationships with leading companies in targeted  industries.
EMCORE develops these  relationships in a number of ways that include long-term,
high-volume  supply  agreements,   joint  ventures,  an  acquisition  and  other
arrangements.  For example,  EMCORE  entered  into a joint  venture with General
Electric  Lighting for the  development and marketing of white light and colored
HB LED products for automotive,  traffic,  flat panel display and other lighting
applications.  EMCORE  has also  signed a Joint  Development  Manufacturing  and
Marketing Agreement with JDS Uniphase for the joint development, manufacture and
marketing of a family of array  transceivers for cost effective,  high bandwidth
optical networking  products.  EMCORE intends to actively seek similar strategic
relationships  with other key  customers and industry  participants  in order to
further expand its technological and production base; and

     Continue Investment to Maintain Technology Leadership.  Through substantial
investment in research and  development,  EMCORE seeks to expand its  leadership
position in  compound  semiconductor  production  systems,  wafers and  devices.
EMCORE works with its customers to identify  specific  performance  criteria and
uses this  information to enhance the performance of its production  systems and
to further  expand its process and materials  science  expertise,  including the
development of new low-cost,  high-volume  wafers and devices for its customers.
In addition,  EMCORE's  development efforts are focused on continually  lowering
the production costs of its products.

Products

Production Systems

     EMCORE is a leading  supplier of MOCVD  compound  semiconductor  production
systems,  with more than 300 systems  shipped as of September  30, 2000.  EMCORE
believes  that its TurboDisc  production  systems  offer  significant  ownership
advantages over competing  systems and that the high throughput  capabilities of
its TurboDisc  production  systems make  possible  superior  reproducibility  of
thickness,  composition,  electronic  properties and layer accuracy required for
electronic  and  optoelectronic  devices.  Each system can be customized for the
customer's throughput,  wafer size and process chemistry requirements.  EMCORE's
production  systems  also achieve a high degree of  reliability  with an average
time available for production, based on customer data, of approximately 95%.

     EMCORE believes its TurboDisc  production systems enable the lowest cost of
ownership for the  manufacture of compound  semiconductor  materials.  The major
components of the cost of ownership include yield, throughput,  direct costs and
capital  costs.  Yield  primarily  relates to  material  uniformity,  which is a
function of the precision of the physical and chemical processes by which atomic
layers are  deposited.  Throughput,  the volume of wafers  produced  per unit of
time,  includes both the time required for a process cycle and the handling time
between process steps.  Direct costs include  consumables  used in manufacturing
and  processing  and the clean room space  required for the  equipment.  Capital
costs include the cost of acquisition and installation of the process equipment.

     EMCORE's  proprietary  TurboDisc  technology  utilizes a unique  high speed
rotating   disk  in  a  stainless   steel   growth   chamber   with   integrated
vacuum-compatible  loading chambers. To produce a wafer, a bare substrate,  such
as gallium arsenide,  sapphire or germanium, is placed on a wafer carrier in the
TurboDisc  growth  chamber  and  subjected  to  high  temperatures.  Based  on a
predetermined formula, metal organic gases are released into the growth chamber.
These  gases  decompose  on  the  hot,  rapidly  spinning  wafer.  Semiconductor
materials are then  deposited on the substrate in a highly uniform  manner.  The
resulting  wafer  thus  carries  one  or  more  ultra-thin  layers  of  compound
semiconductor  material  such as  gallium  arsenide,  gallium  nitride or indium
aluminum  phosphide.  The TurboDisc  technology not only produces  uniformity of
deposition   across  the  wafer,   but  also  offers   flexibility  for  diverse
applications with improved material results and increased  production rates. The
unique  precision  control  of  reactant  gas flow in the  TurboDisc  technology
platform  allows users to scale easily from research to commercial  volumes with
substantially reduced time and effort. Upon removal from the growth chamber, the
wafer is transferred to a device  processing  facility for various steps such as
photolithography, etching, masking, metallization and dicing. Upon completion of
these steps,  the devices are then sent for packaging and  incorporation  in the
customer's product.


     EMCORE's  next  generation  of  TurboDisc  products  are being  designed to
provide a number of innovations including:

     o    new reactor design to improve efficiency;
     o    cassette-to-cassette wafer handling to increase automation;
     o    digital control system to reduce noise;
     o    real-time process control and data acquisition on WindowsNT platform;
     o    modular component design to ease outsourcing and upgrading; and
     o    improved temperature control.

Wafers and Devices

     Since its inception, EMCORE has worked closely with its customers to design
and  develop  process  technology  and  material  science  expertise  for use in
production systems for its customers' end-use applications. EMCORE has leveraged
its process and materials science knowledge base to manufacture a broad range of
compound  semiconductor  wafers and devices such as VCSELs, RF materials,  solar
cells, HB LEDs and MR sensors.

     Within  most of these  product  lines,  EMCORE  has  established  strategic
relationships  through  joint  ventures,  long-term  supply  agreements  and  an
acquisition. A summary of these relationships is found below:
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                      PRODUCTS AND STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS

Product Line                  Company                Nature of Relationship                  Application
<S>                           <C>                    <C>                                     <C>
Vertical cavity               JDS Uniphase           Joint Development Manufacturing         Array transceivers
surface-emitting lasers                              and Marketing Agreement                 Array transponders
(VCSELs)
                              Agilent                Long-term supply agreement              Gigarray(R)VCSEL arrays for
                                                                                             use in parallel optical
                                                                                             transceivers

Radio frequency (RF)          Motorola               Long-term supply agreement               Digital wireless, fiber optic
materials                     Anadigics                                                       and cellular applications

Solar cells                   Space Systems/         Long-term supply agreement               Solar panels in
                              Loral                                                           communications
                                                                                              satellite powered
                              Lockheed Martin        Strategic partner                        systems
                              Missiles and Space

High-brightness               General Electric       GELcore joint venture for the            Traffic lights
light-emitting diodes         Lighting               development, marketing and               Miniature lamps
 (HB LEDs)                                           distribution of white light              Automotive lighting
                                                     and colored HB LED                       Flat panel displays
                                                     products

                              Uniroyal               Uniroyal Optoelectronics joint           Other lighting applications
                              Technology             venture for the
                              Corporation            manufacture
                                                     of HB LED wafers and
                                                     package-ready devices

Magneto resistive (MR)        General Motors         Long-term supply agreement               Cam and crank shaft sensors
sensors                       Corporation
</TABLE>

VCSELs

     Vertical cavity surface-emitting lasers ("VCSELs") are semiconductor lasers
that emit light in a cylindrical beam. VCSELs offer significant  advantages over
traditional laser diodes used in fiber optic communications, including:

     o    greater control over beam size and wavelength;
     o    reduced manufacturing complexity and packaging costs;
     o    lower power consumption; and
     o    higher frequency performance.

     Leading  electronic  systems  manufacturers  are integrating  VCSELs into a
broad  array of  end-market  applications  including  Internet  access,  digital
cross-connect  telecommunications  switches,  DVD, and fiber optic switching and
routing, such as Gigabit Ethernet.

     In December 1997, EMCORE acquired  MicroOptical  Devices,  Inc. ("MODE"), a
development stage company primarily dedicated to the research and development of
enabling VCSEL technologies. In February 1998, EMCORE announced Gigalase(R), its
first  commercial  high speed VCSEL laser  operating  at 1.25 Gbps.  In December
1998, EMCORE announced its second VCSEL product,  Gigarray(R), a VCSEL array. In
March 2000,  EMCORE debuted the industry's first commercial 2.5 Gbps 850nm oxide
VCSEL,  the Gigalase(R)  with  OxideGuide(TM),  and in August 2000 announced the
availability  of its first 850 nm 1x4 and 1x12 Oxide  VCSEL  arrays and its high
speed gallium arsenide (GaAs) photodetector  arrays. The 1x4 array is capable of
up to 10 Gbps transmission  speeds,  while the 1x12 has a transmission  speed of
30Gbps.  EMCORE's  photodetector  arrays  operate up to speeds of 3.125Gbps  and
provide the efficiency required for high speed data transmission.

     In January 2000,  EMCORE  entered into a three-year  supply  agreement with
Agilent, a leading supplier of fiber optic transceivers and integrated  circuits
for infrastructure products for the Internet. Under this agreement,  EMCORE will
manufacture  Gigarray(R) VCSEL arrays for use in parallel optical  transceivers.
The initial  purchase  order under the  agreement is  contingent  upon  EMCORE's
development of a component  that meets  Agilent's  specifications.  EMCORE began
shipping commercial product in December 2000.

     In June 2000, EMCORE signed a Joint Development Manufacturing and Marketing
Agreement with JDS Uniphase for the joint development, manufacture and marketing
of a family of array  transceivers  for the Very Short Reach  OC-192 and related
markets.  Recent  industry  forecasts  indicate that the market  opportunity for
high-speed optical transceivers, including 2.5 gigabit per channel arrays and 10
gigabit  serial  devices will exceed $3.4  billion by the year 2004.  EMCORE has
completed  alpha testing and began  shipping  prototype  array  transceivers  in
December 2000.

RF Materials

     Radio frequency ("RF") materials are compound semiconductor  materials that
transmit and receive communications.  Compound semiconductor RF materials have a
broader   bandwidth  and  superior   performance  at  higher   frequencies  than
silicon-based  materials.  EMCORE currently produces 4-inch and 6-inch InGaP HBT
and pHEMT materials that are used by its wireless customers for power amplifiers
for GSM, TDMA, and CDMA multiband wireless handsets. InGaP HBT materials provide
higher linearity,  higher power added efficiency as well as greater  reliability
than first generation AlGaAs HBT technologies, and have become the technology of
choice for next generation HBT-based power amplifiers for wireless handsets.  In
addition,  recent  developments  and transfers to production of enhancement mode
pHEMT technologies have demonstrated their continued competitiveness for handset
applications.

     EMCORE is also exploring  opportunities to market RF materials to its fiber
optic  customers for use in high speed digital  components  for OC-48 and OC-192
fiber optic  communication  and to its power  satellite  customers for satellite
communication  applications.  EMCORE  believes  that its ability to produce high
volumes of RF  materials  at a low cost will  facilitate  their  adoption in new
applications and products.

     In May 2000,  EMCORE  signed  an  agreement  with  Motorola  to meet  their
requirements for epitaxial tools,  wireless electronic materials and technology.
This relationship  includes supplying Motorola with epitaxial process technology
and multiple MOCVD  production  tools, as well as purchase orders for electronic
device epitaxial  wafers.  Motorola also announced that EMCORE was awarded their
Standard  Supplier  Designation,  making EMCORE the only  qualified  supplier of
MOCVD tools for Motorola's compound semiconductor factories.

     In October 2000 EMCORE  received a $10.7  million  order from  Anadigics to
supply  6-inch  GaAs HBT and pHEMT  wafers for their  fiber  optic and  wireless
communications  devices.  Anadigics will be using  EMCORE's  materials for power
amplifiers  for  GSM,  TDMA  and  CDMA  multi-band  wireless  handsets  and  for
high-speed digital components for OC-192 data communication applications.

Solar Cells

     Compound  semiconductor  solar cells are used to power  satellites  because
they are more resistant to radiation  levels in space and convert  substantially
more light to power,  therefore weigh less per unit of power than  silicon-based
solar cells. These  characteristics  increase  satellite life,  increase payload
capacity  and  reduce  launch  costs.  In  fiscal  2000,  EMCORE  announced  the
manufacture and shipment of the world's highest efficiency  dual-junction  solar
cell for  satellite  applications.  EMCORE  also  announced  the  production  of
high-efficiency triple junction solar cells with a minimum average efficiency of
26%.  EMCORE began  shipping the triple  junction  solar cells in December 2000.
EMCORE is currently involved in several solar cell projects:

     o    EMCORE's  solar cells were  selected  for use on two Space  Technology
          Research Vehicles (STRV 1c&1d). These microsatellites are scheduled to
          be launched in November, 2001 by Arianspace. EMCORE's solar cells have
          been  selected  for  two  European  communication  satellite  programs
          scheduled for launch in 2002.  Additionally,  EMCORE's solar cells are
          being  used for two  Japanese  scientific  programs  sponsored  by the
          National Space Development Agency of Japan (NASDA);

     o    EMCORE is also  working  with TRW,  Boeing and  Lockheed  to  identify
          programs suitable for our high efficiency solar cells;

     o    In April  2000,  EMCORE  signed a  Memorandum  of  Understanding  with
          Angewandte  Solarenergie-ASE  GmbH to provide  solar cell material for
          use in the  manufacture  of their solar cells.  Under this  agreement,
          EMCORE will provide Epi processing and other services;

     o    In November 1999, EMCORE entered into a Technical Assistance Agreement
          with Loral and Mitsubishi Electric Corporation;

     o    In November  1998,  EMCORE signed a long-term  supply  agreement  with
          Space  Systems/Loral,  a wholly  owned  subsidiary  of  Loral  Space &
          Communications.   Under  this  agreement,   EMCORE  supplies  compound
          semiconductor high efficiency gallium arsenide solar cells for Loral's
          satellites.  To date,  EMCORE has received  purchase orders from Space
          Systems/Loral  that total $32.3 million and services this agreement at
          our new facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico;

     o    In November 1998,  EMCORE  received a $2.2 million  contract under the
          U.S. Air Force's Broad Agency Announcement Program for the development
          of high-efficiency advanced solar cells; and

     o    In September  1998,  EMCORE  entered into an agreement  with  Lockheed
          Martin  Missiles  and Space,  a  strategic  business  unit of Lockheed
          Martin Corporation,  to provide technical  management and support of a
          Cooperative Research and Development Agreement between Lockheed Martin
          and   Sandia    National    Laboratory   for   the   advancement   and
          commercialization  of a new  compound  semiconductor  high  efficiency
          solar cell. Pursuant to this strategic agreement,  (1) Lockheed Martin
          will grant EMCORE a sub-license for all related intellectual  property
          developed on behalf of or in conjunction  with Lockheed Martin and (2)
          EMCORE and Lockheed  Martin will jointly qualify and validate the high
          efficiency solar cells for operational satellite use.

HB LEDs

     High-brightness  light-emitting diodes ("HB LEDs") are solid state compound
semiconductor  devices  that  emit  light.  The  global  demand  for HB  LEDs is
experiencing  rapid  growth  because HB LEDs have a long  useful  life,  consume
approximately  10% of the power consumed by incandescent or halogen lighting and
improve display  visibility.  In February 1998,  EMCORE and Uniroyal  Technology
Corporation  formed  Uniroyal  Optoelectronics,  a joint venture to manufacture,
sell and distribute HB LED wafers and package-ready devices.

     In May 1999, EMCORE and General Electric  Lighting formed GELcore,  a joint
venture  to  develop  and  market HB LED  lighting  products.  General  Electric
Lighting and EMCORE have agreed that this joint  venture  will be the  exclusive
vehicle for each party's participation in solid state lighting. GELcore combines
EMCORE's   materials  science   expertise,   process   technology  and  compound
semiconductor  production  systems with General  Electric  Lighting's brand name
recognition and extensive  marketing and  distribution  capabilities.  GELcore's
long-term  goal is to develop  products  to  replace  traditional  lighting.  In
September 2000, GELcore acquired Ecolux, Inc. adding  LED-signaling  products to
its growing line of LED products.

MR Sensors

     Magneto  resistive ("MR") sensors are compound  semiconductor  devices that
possess sensing  capabilities.  MR sensors improve vehicle  performance  through
more  accurate  control  of engine  and crank  shaft  timing,  which  allows for
improved spark plug efficiency and reduced  emissions.  In January 1997,  EMCORE
initiated  shipments  of  compound  semiconductor  MR sensors  using  technology
licensed  to  EMCORE  from  General  Motors.   This  license  allows  EMCORE  to
manufacture and sell products to anyone using this  technology.  As of September
30,  2000,  EMCORE has  delivered  over 10.7 million  devices to General  Motors
Powertrain  for  crank and cam speed and  position  sensing  applications  for 5
different engine builds under 20 different vehicle platforms.

Customers

     EMCORE's  rapidly  expanding  customer  base  includes  many of the largest
semiconductor,  telecommunications,  consumer  goods and computer  manufacturing
companies in the world.  A number of EMCORE's  customers  are listed  below.  In
addition,  EMCORE  has sold its  products  to more  than a dozen of the  largest
electronics manufacturers in Japan.

<TABLE>
<S>                            <C>                                      <C>
Agilent Technologies           IBM                                      Philips AG
AMP Incorporated               JDS Uniphase                             Rockwell International
Anadigics                      L.M. Ericsson AB                         Siemens AG - Osram
Boeing-Spectrolab              Loral Space and Communications           Texas Instruments
Corning                        Lucent Technologies                      Thomson CSF
General Motors                 Motorola                                 TriQuint Semiconductor
Hewlett Packard                Nortel Networks
Honeywell                      Northrop Grumman
</TABLE>

     EMCORE has a comprehensive  total quality  management  program with special
emphasis  on total  customer  satisfaction.  EMCORE  seeks to  encourage  active
customer involvement with the design and operation of its production systems. To
accomplish  this,  EMCORE  conducts user group  meetings  among its customers in
Asia, Europe and North America.  At annual meetings,  EMCORE's customers provide
valuable  feedback on key operations,  process oriented  services,  problems and
recommendations  to help improve EMCORE products.  This direct customer feedback
has enabled  EMCORE to  constantly  update and improve the design of its systems
and processes.  Changes that affect the reliability and capabilities of EMCORE's
systems are  embodied in new designs to enable  current and future  customers to
utilize systems which EMCORE believes are high quality and cost-efficient.

Marketing and Sales

     EMCORE markets and sells its wafers, devices and systems through its direct
sales force in North America,  Europe,  Taiwan and through  representatives  and
distributors  elsewhere  in Asia.  To market and service its  products in China,
Japan and  Singapore,  EMCORE  relies on a single  marketing,  distribution  and
service  provider,  Hakuto Co., Ltd.  EMCORE's  agreements with Hakuto expire in
March 2008. Hakuto has exclusive distribution rights for certain EMCORE products
in Japan.  Hakuto has marketed and serviced  EMCORE's  products since 1988, is a
minority  shareholder  in  EMCORE  and the  President  of  Hakuto is a member of
EMCORE's  Board of  Directors.  In August 1999,  EMCORE  entered into a two-year
distribution  agreement with DI Systems to market and service EMCORE's  products
in South Korea.  EMCORE has sales offices in California and Taiwan, ROC in order
to efficiently service EMCORE's rapidly expanding customer base in these areas.

     EMCORE's sales and marketing,  senior  management and technical  staff work
closely with existing and potential customers to provide compound  semiconductor
products that meet their  customers'  needs.  EMCORE seeks to match a customer's
requirements to an existing design or a modification of a standard design,  such
as a change in platform or process design. When necessary, EMCORE will work with
the customer to develop the  appropriate  design  process and to  configure  and
manufacture the production  system to meet the customer's  needs.  Also,  EMCORE
will   produce   samples   to   demonstrate   conformance   to  the   customer's
specifications.  For  production  systems,  the period of time from the  initial
contact with the customer to the  customer's  placement of an order is typically
two to nine  months or longer.  EMCORE's  sales  cycle for  wafers  and  devices
usually runs three to nine months, during which time EMCORE develops the formula
of elements  necessary to meet the customer's  specifications  and qualifies the
materials  which may also require the delivery of samples.  EMCORE believes that
the marketing,  management and engineering  support  involved in this process is
beneficial in developing competitive differentiation and long-term relationships
with its customers.

Service and Support

     EMCORE  maintains a worldwide  service and support network  responsible for
on-site   maintenance  and  process   monitoring  on  either  a  contractual  or
time-and-materials  basis. Customers may purchase annual service contracts under
which EMCORE is required to maintain an inventory  of  replacement  parts and to
service the equipment upon the customer's request. EMCORE also sells replacement
parts from inventory to meet customer needs.  EMCORE pursues a program of system
upgrades for  customers to increase the  performance  of older  systems.  EMCORE
generally does not offer  extended  payment terms to its customers and generally
adheres to a warranty  policy of one year.  Consistent  with industry  practice,
EMCORE  maintains an inventory of components for servicing  systems in the field
and it  believes  that  its  inventory  is  sufficient  to  satisfy  foreseeable
short-term  customer  requirements.  EMCORE has a  warehouse  depot in Taiwan to
provide improved service to its Asian customers.

Research and Development

     To maintain and improve its  competitive  position,  EMCORE's  research and
development  efforts are focused on  designing  new  proprietary  processes  and
products,  improving the performance of existing systems, wafers and devices and
reducing  costs in the product  manufacturing  process.  EMCORE has dedicated 29
TurboDisc  systems  for  both  research  and  production  that  are  capable  of
processing  virtually  all compound  semiconductor  materials.  The research and
development  staff  utilizes  x-ray,  optical  and  electrical  characterization
equipment which provide instant data allowing for shortened  development  cycles
and rapid  customer  response.  EMCORE  expects that it will  continue to expend
substantial resources on research and development.

     EMCORE also  competes for research and  development  funds.  In view of the
high cost of  development,  EMCORE  solicits  research  contracts  that  provide
opportunities   to   enhance   its  core   technology   base  or   promote   the
commercialization  of targeted  products.  EMCORE is also  positioned  to market
technology and process  development  expertise directly to customers who require
it for their own product development efforts.

Intellectual Property and Licensing

     EMCORE's success and competitive  position for production  systems,  wafers
and devices  depend  significantly  on its ability to maintain trade secrets and
other intellectual property  protections.  Our strategy is to rely on both trade
secrets  and  patents.  A "trade  secret" is  information  that has value to the
extent it is not generally  known,  not readily  ascertainable by others through
legitimate means and protected in a way that maintains its secrecy.  Reliance on
trade secrets is only an effective  business  practice  insofar as trade secrets
remain  undisclosed  and  a  proprietary  product  or  process  is  not  reverse
engineered or  independently  developed.  In order to protect its trade secrets,
EMCORE  takes  certain  measures  to ensure  their  secrecy,  such as  executing
non-disclosure agreements with its employees, joint venture partners,  customers
and  suppliers.  EMCORE also has an  aggressive  program to actively  patent all
areas of its technology.

     To date,  EMCORE has been issued  twelve  (12) U.S.  patents and others are
either  pending  (20 patent  applications  filed) or under  in-house  review (40
disclosures  and draft  patent  applications).  These U.S.  patents  will expire
between 2005 and 2013. None of these U.S.  patents claim any material aspects of
current or planned commercial  versions of EMCORE's systems,  wafers or devices.
EMCORE only relies on trade secrets to protect its intellectual property when it
believes  publishing patents would make it easier for others to reverse engineer
EMCORE's proprietary processes.

     EMCORE is a licensee of certain  VCSEL  technology  and  associated  patent
rights owned by Sandia Corporation. The Sandia license grants EMCORE:

     o    non-exclusive  rights  to  develop,   manufacture  and  sell  products
          containing  Sandia  VCSEL  technologies  under five U.S.  patents that
          expire between 2007 and 2015; and
     o    non-exclusive  rights to employ a  proprietary  oxidation  fabrication
          method in the  manufacture of VCSEL products under a sixth U.S. patent
          that expires in 2014.  EMCORE's success and competitive  position as a
          producer of VCSEL products  depends on the  continuation of its rights
          under the Sandia  license,  the scope and duration of those rights and
          the  ability of Sandia to protect  its  proprietary  interests  in the
          underlying technology and patents.

     In 1992, EMCORE received a royalty bearing,  non-exclusive  license under a
patent held by Rockwell International  Corporation which relates to an aspect of
the manufacturing process used by its TurboDisc systems. In October 1996, EMCORE
initiated  discussions  with Rockwell to receive  additional  licenses to permit
EMCORE to use this  technology to  manufacture  and sell compound  semiconductor
wafers and  devices.  In November  1996,  EMCORE  suspended  these  negotiations
because of litigation  surrounding the validity of the Rockwell  patent.  EMCORE
also ceased making  royalty  payments to Rockwell  under the license  during the
pendency of the litigation. In January 1999, the case was settled and a judgment
was  entered in favor of  Rockwell.  As a result,  EMCORE may be required to pay
royalties to Rockwell for certain of its past sales of wafers and devices to its
customers  who did not hold  licenses  directly from  Rockwell.  Management  has
reviewed and assessed its likely  royalty  obligations  and believes that it has
the appropriate  amounts reserved at both September 30, 1999 and 2000. If EMCORE
is required to pay Rockwell  amounts in excess of its  reserves,  its  business,
financial  condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely
affected.

Environmental Regulations

     EMCORE  is  subject  to  federal,  state  and  local  laws and  regulations
concerning the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release,
discharge and disposal of certain materials used in its research and development
and  production   operations,   as  well  as  laws  and  regulations  concerning
environmental  remediation  and employee  health and safety.  The  production of
wafers  and  devices  involves  the  use of  certain  hazardous  raw  materials,
including,  but not  limited to,  ammonia,  phosphine  and  arsene.  If EMCORE's
control  systems  are  unsuccessful  in  preventing  release  of  these or other
hazardous  materials,  EMCORE could  experience a  substantial  interruption  of
operations.  EMCORE has  retained an  environmental  consultant  to advise it in
complying  with  applicable   environmental  and  health  and  safety  laws  and
regulations,  and believes  that it is  currently,  and in the past has been, in
compliance with all such laws and regulations.

Backlog

     As of September 30, 2000,  EMCORE had an order  backlog of $125.0  million,
scheduled to be shipped through September 30, 2001. This represented an increase
of $81.9  million or 190% since  September  30, 1999.  This  increase  primarily
relates to increased  production  systems bookings,  orders for solar cells from
Loral and  epitaxial  wafers  from  Motorola.  EMCORE  only  includes in backlog
customer  purchase  orders  that have  been  accepted  by  EMCORE  and for which
shipment  dates have been  assigned  within the 12 months to follow and research
contracts that are in process or awarded.  Wafer and device agreements extending
longer than one year in duration are included in backlog only for the ensuing 12
months.  EMCORE  receives  partial  advance  payments or irrevocable  letters of
credit on most production system orders. EMCORE recognizes revenue from the sale
of its systems and materials upon shipment. For research contracts with the U.S.
government and commercial  enterprises  with durations  greater than six months,
EMCORE  recognizes  revenue  to the extent of costs  incurred  plus a portion of
estimated  gross  profit,  as stipulated  in such  contracts,  based on contract
performance.

Manufacturing

     EMCORE's  manufacturing  operations are located at EMCORE's headquarters in
Somerset,  New  Jersey  and in  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico  and  include  systems
engineering  and  production,  wafer  fabrication  and design and  production of
devices.  Many of EMCORE's  manufacturing  operations are computer  monitored or
controlled to enhance reliability and yield. EMCORE manufactures its own systems
and outsources some components and sub-assemblies, but performs all final system
integration,  assembly and testing.  EMCORE fabricates wafers and devices at its
facilities  in  Somerset,  New  Jersey  and  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico and has a
combined  clean room area totaling  approximately  41,000 square feet.  EMCORE's
joint venture with Uniroyal  Technology  Corporation  manufactures HB LED wafers
and package-ready devices at its Tampa, Florida  manufacturing  facility. In May
1998,  EMCORE  received  ISO 9001  and QS 9002  quality  certifications  for its
Somerset,  New Jersey  facility.  In November  1999,  EMCORE  received  ISO 9001
quality   certification   for  its  newly   completed  solar  cell  facility  in
Albuquerque,  New Mexico.  In September  2000,  EMCORE received ISO 9001 quality
certification for its new Array Transceiver Division in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
In December 2000,  EMCORE received ISO 9001 quality  certification for its VCSEL
facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

     Outside  contractors  and  suppliers  are used to supply raw  materials and
standard  components  and to  assemble  portions  of  end  systems  from  EMCORE
specifications.  EMCORE  depends on sole, or a limited  number of,  suppliers of
components and raw materials. EMCORE generally purchases these single or limited
source products through standard purchase orders.  EMCORE also seeks to maintain
ongoing  communications  with its  suppliers to guard against  interruptions  in
supply and has, to date,  generally been able to obtain sufficient supplies in a
timely manner.  EMCORE maintains  inventories it believes are sufficient to meet
its near term  needs.  EMCORE  implemented  a vendor  program  through  which it
inspects  quality  and  reviews  suppliers  and  prices in order to  standardize
purchasing  efficiencies  and design  requirements  to maintain as low a cost of
sales as possible.  However, operating results could be materially and adversely
affected  by a  stoppage  or delay of  supply,  receipt  of  defective  parts or
contaminated  materials,  and  increase in the pricing of such parts or EMCORE's
inability  to  obtain  reduced   pricing  from  its  suppliers  in  response  to
competitive pressures.

Competition

     The  markets  in which  EMCORE  competes  are  highly  competitive.  EMCORE
competes with several  companies for sales of MOCVD  systems  including  Aixtron
GmbH and  Nippon-Sanso  K.K.  Ltd. The primary  competitors  for EMCORE's  wafer
foundry include Epitaxial  Products Inc.,  Hitachi-Cable,  Kopin Corporation and
Quantum  Epitaxial  Designs,  Inc. EMCORE's  principal  competitors for sales of
VCSEL-related  products  include  Honeywell,  Inc.  and Mitel  Corporation.  The
principal competitors for MR sensors are Honeywell,  Inc.,  Matshushita Electric
Industrial  Co.  Ltd.,  Siemens AG  Osterreich,  Electrotechnik  and Asahi Kasei
Electronic  Co., Ltd.. The principal  competitors for HB LEDs and EMCORE's joint
ventures with Uniroyal  Technology  Corporation  and General  Electric  Lighting
include the Phillips  Electronics  and Hewlett  Packard  Company joint  venture,
Siemens  AG's Osram GmbH  subsidiary,  Nichia  Chemical  Industries  and Toshiba
Corporation.  EMCORE also faces  competition from  manufacturers  that implement
in-house  systems  for their own use. In  addition,  EMCORE  competes  with many
research  institutions and universities for research  contract  funding.  EMCORE
also sells its products to current competitors and companies with the capability
of  becoming  competitors.  As the  markets  for  EMCORE's  products  grow,  new
competitors  are likely to emerge and present  competitors  may  increase  their
market share.

     EMCORE  believes  that the  primary  competitive  factors in the markets in
which EMCORE's products compete are yield, throughput,  performance,  breadth of
product  line,   customer   satisfaction,   customer   commitment  to  competing
technologies  and, in the case of production  systems,  capital and direct costs
and size of installed base.  Competitors  may develop  enhancements to or future
generations  of competitive  products that offer superior price and  performance
factors.  EMCORE  believes that in order to remain  competitive,  it must invest
significant   financial   resources  in  developing  new  product  features  and
enhancements and in maintaining customer satisfaction worldwide.

Employees

     At September 30, 2000, EMCORE had 625 employees, including 328 employees in
manufacturing  operations,  185  employees in research and  development  and 112
employees in sales and general  administration.  This  represents an increase of
257  employees or 70% from  September 30, 1999.  None of EMCORE's  employees are
covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  EMCORE considers its relationship
with its employees to be good.

Risk Factors

Our Rapid Growth Places A Strain on Our Resources.

     We are experiencing rapid growth,  having added a significant number of new
employees  within  the  last  year.  We have  also  expanded  our  manufacturing
facilities in Albuquerque,  New Mexico and in Somerset,  New Jersey. This growth
has placed and will  continue to place a significant  strain on our  management,
financial,  sales and other employees and on our internal  systems and controls.
If we are unable to effectively  manage  multiple  facilities and multiple joint
ventures in geographically distant locations, our business,  financial condition
and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We are also
in  the  process  of  installing  new  manufacturing  software  for  all  of our
facilities and are evaluating  replacing our accounting and purchasing  systems.
Most of the new manufacturing  software is customized to our particular business
and  manufacturing  processes.  It will  take  time and  require  evaluation  to
eliminate any of the  malfunctions in the software and to train personnel to use
the new software.  In this  transition we may  experience  delays in production,
cost overruns and disruptions in our operations.

We Expect To Continue to Incur Operating Losses.

     We  started  operations  in  1984  and  as of  September  30,  2000  had an
accumulated  deficit of $108.9 million.  We incurred net losses of $36.4 million
in fiscal 1998,  $22.7  million in fiscal 1999 and $25.5 million in fiscal 2000.
We expect to continue to incur losses.  To support our growth, we have increased
our expense levels and our investments in inventory and capital equipment.  As a
result,  we will need to significantly  increase  revenues and profit margins to
become and stay  profitable.  If our sales and profit margins do not increase to
support the higher levels of operating expenses and if our new product offerings
are not successful, our business,  financial condition and results of operations
will be materially and adversely affected.

Since The Technology In The Compound Semiconductor
Industry Rapidly Changes, We Must Continually Improve
Existing Products, Design And Sell New Products And
Manage The Costs Of Research And DevelopmentIn Order
To Effectively Compete.

     We compete in markets characterized by rapid technological change, evolving
industry  standards and  continuous  improvements  in products.  Due to constant
changes in these markets,  our future success  depends on our ability to improve
our  manufacturing  processes,  tools and products.  For example,  our TurboDisc
production systems must remain competitive on the basis of cost of ownership and
process  performance.  To  remain  competitive  we  must  continually  introduce
manufacturing tools with higher capacity and better production yields.

     We have recently  introduced a number of new  products,  and, in connection
with recent  joint  ventures and internal  development,  we will be  introducing
additional  new  products  in the  near  future.  The  commercialization  of new
products  involves   substantial   expenditures  in  research  and  development,
production and marketing. We may be unable to successfully design or manufacture
these new products and may have difficulty penetrating new markets. In addition,
many of our new products are being incorporated into our customers' new products
for new applications, such as high-speed computer networks.

     Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required
and  the  costs  involved  in  achieving  certain   research,   development  and
engineering objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and
estimated product development schedules may be extended. Our business, financial
condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if:

     o    we are unable to improve our existing products on a timely basis;
     o    our new products are not introduced on a timely basis;
     o    we incur budget  overruns or delays in our  research  and  development
          efforts; or
     o    our new products experience reliability or quality problems.

Fluctuations In Our Quarterly Operating Results May
Negatively Impact Our Stock Price.

     Our revenues and operating results may vary  significantly  from quarter to
quarter  due to a number  of  factors  particular  to  EMCORE  and the  compound
semiconductor  industry.  Not all of these  factors  are in our  control.  These
factors include:

     o    the  volume  and  timing  of  orders  for our  products,  particularly
          TurboDisc systems, which have an average selling price in excess of $1
          million;
     o    the timing of our  announcements  and introduction of new products and
          of similar announcements by our competitors;
     o    downturns in the market for our customers' products;
     o    regional economic  conditions,  particularly in Asia where we derive a
          significant portion of our revenues; and
     o    price volatility in the compound semiconductor industry.

     These  factors may cause our  operating  results  for future  periods to be
below the  expectations  of analysts and investors.  This may cause a decline in
the price of our common stock.

Our Joint Venture Partners, Who Have Control
Of These Ventures, May Make Decisions That
We Do Not Agree With And That Adversely
Affect Our Net Income.

     We do not have a majority  interest  in our joint  ventures  with  Uniroyal
Technology  Corporation or General Electric  Lighting.  These joint ventures are
governed by a board of managers  with  representatives  from both the  strategic
partner and us. Many  fundamental  decisions must be approved by both parties to
the joint  venture,  which means we will be unable to direct the  operation  and
direction of these joint  ventures  without the  agreement of our joint  venture
partners.  If we are unable to agree on  important  issues with a joint  venture
partner, the business of that joint venture may be delayed or interrupted, which
may, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business,  financial condition
and results of operations.

     We have  devoted and will be  required  to  continue to devote  significant
funds and  technologies  to our joint  ventures  to develop  and  enhance  their
products.  In  addition,  our  joint  ventures  will  require  that  some of our
employees devote much of their time to joint venture projects. This will place a
strain on our  management,  scientific,  financial and sales  employees.  If our
joint ventures are unsuccessful in developing and marketing their products,  our
business,  financial  condition and results of operations  may be materially and
adversely affected.

     General  Electric  Lighting  and EMCORE have agreed that our joint  venture
will be the sole  vehicle  for each  party's  participation  in the solid  state
lighting  market.  General  Electric  Lighting  and EMCORE  have also  agreed to
several  limitations  during the life of the venture and thereafter  relating to
use that each of us can make of the joint venture's technology.  One consequence
of  these  limitations  is that in  certain  circumstances,  such as a  material
default by us, we would not be permitted to use the joint  venture's  technology
to compete against General Electric Lighting in the solid state lighting market.

Since A Large Percentage of Our Revenues Are
from Foreign Sales, Certain Export Risks May\
Disproportionately Affect Our Revenues.

     Sales  to  customers  located  outside  the  United  States  accounted  for
approximately  39.1% of our  revenues in fiscal  1998,  52.6% of our revenues in
fiscal 1999 and 38.6% of our revenues in fiscal 2000. Sales to customers in Asia
represent the majority of our international sales. We believe that international
sales will  continue to account for a  significant  percentage  of our revenues.
Because of this, the following  export risks may  disproportionately  affect our
revenues:

     o    political and economic  instability  may inhibit export of our systems
          and devices and limit potential customers' access to U.S. dollars;
     o    shipping and installation costs of our systems may increase;
     o    we may  experience  difficulties  in the  timeliness  of collection of
          foreign  accounts  receivable  and be forced to write off  receivables
          from foreign customers;
     o    a strong  dollar  may make our  systems  less  attractive  to  foreign
          purchasers   who  may  decide  to   postpone   making   such   capital
          expenditures;
     o    tariffs and other  barriers may make our systems and devices less cost
          competitive;
     o    we may have  difficulty  in staffing and  managing  our  international
          operations;
     o    the laws of certain foreign  countries may not adequately  protect our
          trade secrets and intellectual property; and
     o    potentially  adverse tax  consequences  to our  customers may make our
          systems and devices not cost-competitive.

We Will Lose Sales If We Are Unable To Obtain
Government Authorization To Export Our Products.

     Exports of our  products  to  certain  destinations,  such as the  People's
Republic of China,  Malaysia and Taiwan, may require pre-shipment  authorization
from U.S. export control authorities, including the U.S. Departments of Commerce
and State. Authorization may be conditioned on end-use restrictions.  On certain
occasions,  we have been denied authorization,  particularly with respect to the
People's  Republic  of  China.  Failure  to  receive  these  authorizations  may
materially and adversely affect our revenues and in turn our business, financial
condition  and results of operations  from  international  sales.  Additionally,
export jurisdiction  relating to exports of satellites and associated components
has not been  definitively  settled.  Such  exports may in the future  require a
license from the  Department of State.  This may cause delays in shipping  solar
cells abroad. Delays in receiving export licenses for solar cells may materially
and adversely affect our revenues and in turn our business,  financial condition
and results of operations.


Our Products Are Difficult To Manufacture And
Small Manufacturing Defects Can Adversely Affect
Our Production Yields And Our Operating Results.

     The  manufacture  of our TurboDisc  systems is a highly complex and precise
process.  We increasingly  outsource the  fabrication of certain  components and
sub-assemblies  of our  systems,  often to sole  source  suppliers  or a limited
number  of  suppliers.  We  have  experienced  occasional  delays  in  obtaining
components and subassemblies  because the manufacturing  process for these items
is very complex and requires long lead times. The revenues derived from sales of
our TurboDisc systems will be materially and adversely affected if we are unable
to obtain a high  quality,  reliable and timely supply of these  components  and
subassemblies.  In addition,  any reduction in the precision of these components
will result in sub-standard end products and will cause delays and interruptions
in our production cycle.

     We  manufacture  all  of  our  wafers  and  devices  in  our  manufacturing
facilities and our joint venture with Uniroyal  Technology  Corporation plans to
manufacture  HB LED wafers and  package-ready  devices at its  facility.  Minute
impurities,  difficulties in the production process,  defects in the layering of
the devices' constituent compounds,  wafer breakage or other factors can cause a
substantial  percentage of wafers and devices to be rejected or numerous devices
on each  wafer to be  non-functional.  These  factors  can  result in lower than
expected  production  yields,  which  would  delay  product  shipments  and  may
materially and adversely affect our operating  results.  Because the majority of
our costs of manufacture are relatively  fixed, the number of shippable  devices
per  wafer  for  a  given  product  is  critical  to  our   financial   results.
Additionally,  because we  manufacture  all of our products at our facilities in
Somerset,  New Jersey and  Albuquerque,  New Mexico,  and our joint venture with
Uniroyal Technology Corporation will manufacture HB LED wafers and package-ready
devices  at  its  sole  facility  in  Tampa,   Florida,   any   interruption  in
manufacturing  resulting  from fire,  natural  disaster,  equipment  failures or
otherwise  would  materially  and  adversely  affect  our  business,   financial
condition and results of operations.

We Face Lengthy Sales and Qualifications Cycles
for Our Products and, In Many Cases, Must Invest
A Substantial Amount of Time and Funds Before
We Receive Orders.

     Sales of our  TurboDisc  systems  primarily  depend upon the  decision of a
prospective  customer to increase its  manufacturing  capacity,  which typically
involves a significant  capital  commitment by the customer.  Customers  usually
place  orders with us on average two to nine  months  after our initial  contact
with them.  We often  experience  delays in obtaining  system sales orders while
customers  evaluate  and receive  internal  approvals  for the purchase of these
systems. These delays may include the time necessary to plan, design or complete
a new or expanded  compound  semiconductor  fabrication  facility.  Due to these
factors, we expend substantial funds and sales, marketing and management efforts
to sell our compound  semiconductor  production systems.  These expenditures and
efforts may not result in sales.

     In order to expand our materials production capabilities, we have dedicated
a number of our  TurboDisc  systems to the  manufacture  of wafers and  devices.
Several of our products  are  currently  being tested to determine  whether they
meet customer or industry  specifications.  During this qualification period, we
invest significant resources and dedicate substantial production capacity to the
manufacture  of these new products,  prior to any  commitment to purchase by the
prospective  customer  and  without  generating  significant  revenues  from the
qualification  process. If we are unable to meet these  specifications or do not
receive sufficient orders to profitably use the dedicated  production  capacity,
our business,  financial condition and results of operations would be materially
and adversely affected.

Industry Demand For Skilled Employees, Particularly
Scientific And Technical Personnel With Compound
Semiconductor Experience, Exceeds The Number Of
Skilled Personnel Available.

     Our future success  depends,  in part, on our ability to attract and retain
certain  key  personnel,   including  scientific,   operational  and  management
personnel.  We anticipate that we will need to hire additional skilled personnel
to continue to expand all areas of our business.  The competition for attracting
and retaining these employees,  especially  scientists,  is intense.  Because of
this intense competition for these skilled employees, we may be unable to retain
our existing personnel or attract additional  qualified employees in the future.
If we are  unable  to  retain  our  skilled  employees  and  attract  additional
qualified  employees  to keep up with our  expansion,  our  business,  financial
condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.

Protecting Our Trade Secrets And Obtaining Patent
Protection Is Critical To Our Ability To Effectively
Compete For Business.

     Our success and competitive position depend on protecting our trade secrets
and other intellectual  property.  Our strategy is to rely both on trade secrets
and patents to protect our manufacturing  and sales processes and products,  but
reliance on trade  secrets is only an  effective  business  practice  insofar as
trade secrets  remain  undisclosed  and a proprietary  product or process is not
reverse  engineered  or  independently  developed.  We take certain  measures to
protect our trade secrets,  including executing  non-disclosure  agreements with
our  employees,  joint venture  partners,  customers and  suppliers.  If parties
breach these agreements or the measures we take are not properly implemented, we
may not have an  adequate  remedy.  Disclosure  of our trade  secrets or reverse
engineering of our proprietary  products,  processes or devices could materially
and  adversely  affect  our  business,   financial   condition  and  results  of
operations.

     Although we currently  hold 12 U.S.  patents,  these patents do not protect
any  material  aspects  of the  current or planned  commercial  versions  of our
systems,  wafers or devices.  We are  actively  pursuing  patents on some of our
recent  inventions,  but these patents may not be issued.  Even if these patents
are issued,  they may be challenged,  invalidated or circumvented.  In addition,
the laws of certain other countries may not protect our intellectual property to
the same extent as U.S. laws.

We May Require Licenses To Continue To Manufacture
And Sell Certain Of Our Compound Semiconductor
Wafers And Devices, The Expense Of Which May
Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations.

     The compound semiconductor,  optoelectronics, and fiberoptic communications
industries are characterized by frequent  litigation  regarding patent and other
intellectual property rights. From time to time we have received and may receive
in the future,  notice of claims of infringement  of other parties'  proprietary
rights and licensing offers to commercialize third party patent rights. Although
we are not currently  involved in any litigations  relating to our  intellectual
property, we cannot assure that:

     o    infringement  claims  (or claims for  indemnification  resulting  from
          infringement claims) will not be asserted against us,

     o    future assertions will not result in an injunction against the sale of
          infringing products or otherwise significantly impair our business and
          results of operations; or

     o    we will not be required to obtain  licenses,  the expense of which may
          adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.

     In October 1999, we were  contacted by Rockwell  International  Corporation
regarding whether EMCORE required  additional licenses from Rockwell to continue
to  manufacture  and sell MOCVD wafers and devices to customers  who do not hold
licenses from Rockwell International  Corporation.  Since that time we have been
in discussions with Rockwell  regarding the necessity and cost of obtaining such
a license.  Although the patent to which  Rockwell  referred  expired in January
2000,  we may be required to pay  additional  royalties  for certain of our past
sales of wafers and devices to customers.  If we are required to pay significant
royalties in connection with these sales, our business,  financial condition and
results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.

Interruptions In Our Business And A Significant Loss
Of Sales To Asia May Result If Our Primary Asian
Distributor Fails To Effectivel  Market And Service
Our Products.

     We rely on a single marketing,  distribution and service  provider,  Hakuto
Co.  Ltd.  to market  and  service  many of our  products  in  Japan,  China and
Singapore.  Hakuto is one of our shareholders and Hakuto's president is a member
of our Board of Directors. We have distributorship  agreements with Hakuto which
expire in March 2008 and give Hakuto exclusive  distribution  rights for certain
of our products in Japan. Hakuto's failure to effectively market and service our
products  or  termination  of our  relationship  with  Hakuto  could  result  in
significant  delays or  interruption  in our marketing  and service  programs in
Asia.  This  could  materially  and  adversely  affect our  business,  financial
condition and results of operations.

Our  Management's  Stock  Ownership  Gives  Them
The Power To Control Business Affairs And Prevent
A Takeover That Could Be Beneficial To Unaffiliated
Shareholders.

     Certain members of our management, specifically Thomas J. Russell, Chairman
of our Board,  Reuben F.  Richards,  President,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a
director,  and Robert Louis-Dreyfus,  a director,  are former members of Jesup &
Lamont Merchant  Partners,  L.L.C. They collectively  beneficially own more than
20% of our  common  stock.  Accordingly,  such  persons  will  continue  to hold
sufficient  voting power to control our business and affairs for the foreseeable
future.  This  concentration  of ownership may also have the effect of delaying,
deferring or  preventing a change in control of our company,  which could have a
material adverse effect on our stock price.

Unsuccessful Control Of The Hazardous Raw Materials
Used In Our Manufacturing Process Could Result In
Costly Remediation Fees, Penalties Or Damages Under
Environmental And Safety Regulations.

     The production of wafers and devices involves the use of certain  hazardous
raw materials,  including, but not limited to, ammonia, phosphine and arsine. If
our control systems are  unsuccessful in preventing a release of these materials
into the environment or other adverse  environmental  conditions occur, we could
experience interruptions in our operations and incur substantial remediation and
other costs. Failure to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and
regulations  may  materially  and  adversely  affect  our  business,   financial
condition  and results of  operations.

Our Business Or Our Stock Price Could Be Adversely
Affected By Issuance Of Preferred Stock.

     Our board of directors  is  authorized  to issue up to 5,882,352  shares of
preferred  stock  with such  dividend  rates,  liquidation  preferences,  voting
rights,  redemption  and  conversion  terms  and  privileges  as  our  board  of
directors,  in its sole  discretion,  may  determine.  The issuance of shares of
preferred  stock may  result in a decrease  in the value or market  price of our
common stock,  or our board of directors  could use the preferred stock to delay
or discourage  hostile bids for control of us in which  shareholders may receive
premiums for their  common stock or to make the possible  sale of the company or
the  removal  of our  management  more  difficult.  The  issuance  of  shares of
preferred  stock  could  adversely  affect the  voting  and other  rights of the
holders of common stock.

Certain  Provisions Of New Jersey Law And Our Charter
May Make A Takeover Of Our Company  Difficult Even If
Such Takeover Could Be Beneficial To Some Of Our
Shareholders.

     New Jersey law and our certificate of  incorporation,  as amended,  contain
certain  provisions  that could  delay or prevent a  takeover  attempt  that our
shareholders  may  consider in their best  interests.  Our board of directors is
divided into three classes.  Directors are elected to serve staggered three-year
terms and are not subject to removal except for cause by the vote of the holders
of at least 80% of our capital  stock.  In addition,  approval by the holders of
80% of our voting stock is required  for certain  business  combinations  unless
these transactions meet certain fair price criteria and procedural  requirements
or are approved by two-thirds of our continuing directors.  We may in the future
adopt other  measures  that may have the effect of delaying or  discouraging  an
unsolicited takeover, even if the takeover were at a premium price or favored by
a  majority  of  unaffiliated  shareholders.  Certain of these  measures  may be
adopted without any further vote or action by our shareholders.

The Price Of Our Common Stock Has Fluctuated
Widely In The Last Year And May Fluctuate
Widely In The Future.

     Our  common  stock is  traded  on the  NASDAQ  National  Market,  which has
experienced  and  may  continue  to  experience  significant  price  and  volume
fluctuations  that could  adversely  affect the market price of our common stock
without  regard to our  operating  performance.  In  addition,  we believe  that
factors such as quarterly  fluctuations  in financial  results,  earnings  below
analysts'  estimates,  and financial  performance and other  activities of other
publicly traded companies in the semiconductor industry could cause the price of
our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent periods, our
common  stock,  the stock market in general,  and the market for shares of small
capitalization  and semiconductor  industry-related  stocks in particular,  have
experienced  extreme price  fluctuations  which have often been unrelated to the
operating  performance of affected  companies.  Any similar  fluctuations in the
future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

     Our stock price has  fluctuated  widely in the last year and may  fluctuate
widely in the future. Since September 30, 1999, our stock price has been as high
as $86.50  per share and as low as $6.03 per share.  Volatility  in the price of
our common stock may be caused by other  factors  outside of our control and may
be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating results.

Forward-Looking Statements

     Statements  contained  in this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K  which are not
historical facts are  forward-looking  statements  within the meaning of Section
21E of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended.  A  forward-looking
statement may contain words such as "plans," "hopes,"  "believes,"  "estimates,"
"will continue to be," "will be," "continue to," "expect to," "anticipate that,"
"to be" or "can impact."

     Management  cautions that  forward-looking  statements are subject to risks
and uncertainties  that could cause our actual results to differ materially from
those projected in such forward-looking statements.

     Further, our future business, financial condition and results of operations
could  differ  materially  from  those  anticipated  by  such  forward-  looking
statements  and are subject to risks and  uncertainties  including the risks set
forth above.  Moreover,  neither any other person nor we assumes  responsibility
for the accuracy and  completeness  of the  forward-looking  statements.  We are
under no duty to update any of the forward-looking  statements after the date of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K to conform such  statements to actual results or
to changes in our expectations.
