  
Item 1. Business 

      FormFactor designs, develops, manufactures, sells and supports precision, high performance advanced semiconductor wafer probe cards. Semiconductor manufacturers use the Company’s wafer probe cards to perform wafer probe test on the whole wafer in the front end of the semiconductor manufacturing process. 

      The Company introduced its first wafer probe card based on its MicroSpring interconnect technology in 1995, and, by the end of 2000, became a leading supplier of advanced wafer probe cards, based on revenues, according to VLSI Research, an independent research firm. The Company offers its customers high parallelism, large area array wafer probe cards to reduce their overall cost of test. 

Products 

      FormFactor’s products are based on its proprietary technologies, including its MicroSpring interconnect technology and proprietary design tools. The Company’s MicroSpring interconnect technology, which includes resilient spring-like contact elements, enables the Company to produce wafer probe cards for applications that require reliability, speed, precision and signal integrity. FormFactor manufactures its MicroSpring contact elements through precision micro-machining and scalable semiconductor-like wafer fabrication processes. The Company’s MicroSpring contacts are springs that optimize the relative amounts of force on, and across, a bond pad during the test process and maintain their shape and position over a range of compression. These characteristics allow FormFactor to achieve reliable, electrical contact on either clean or oxidized surfaces, including bond pads on a wafer. MicroSpring contacts enable the Company’s wafer probe cards to make hundreds of thousands of touchdowns with minimal maintenance. The MicroSpring contact can be attached to many surfaces, or substrates, including printed circuit boards, silicon wafers, ceramics and various metalized surfaces. 

      Since its original conception, the MicroSpring contact has evolved into a library of spring shapes and technologies. The Company’s designers use this library to design an optimized custom wafer probe card for each application. Since developing this fundamental technology, FormFactor has broadened and refined it to 

1 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

respond to the increasing demands of smaller, faster and more complex semiconductors. The Company’s MicroSpring contacts have scaled in size with the evolution of semiconductors. 
      FormFactor MicroSpring contacts include geometrically precise tip structures. These tip structures are the parts of the Company’s wafer probe cards that contact the chips, and are manufactured using proprietary semiconductor-like processes. These tip structures enable precise contact with small bond pad sizes and pitches. The Company’s technology allows it to specifically design the geometries of the contact tip in order to ensure the most precise and predictable electrical contact is achieved for a customer’s particular application. 

      The Company’s wafer probe cards are custom products that are designed to order for its customers’ unique wafer designs. Contacting up to 256 chips in parallel requires large area contact array sizes because they must accommodate over 11,000 simultaneous contacts. This requirement poses fundamental challenges that include the planarity of the array, the force needed to make contact and the need to touch all bond pads with equal accuracy. FormFactor has developed wafer probe cards that use array sizes ranging from 50 mm x 50 mm up to greater than 150 mm x 100 mm, in combination with complex multi-layer printed circuit boards designed by the Company’s design team. While leading edge DRAM designs use larger array sizes for highly-parallel applications, smaller array sizes used for DRAM applications a few years ago can be used for today’s leading edge applications in the flash memory and logic markets. The Company’s current DRAM contacting technology allows its products to contact up to 256 DRAM chips in parallel. FormFactor’s current flash contacting technology allows its wafer probe cards to contact up to 144 flash chips in parallel. 

      The Company has invested and intends to continue to invest considerable resources in its wafer probe card design tools and processes. These tools and processes enable automated routing and trace length adjustment within the Company’s printed circuit boards and greatly enhance the Company’s ability to rapidly design and lay out complex printed circuit board structures. FormFactor’s proprietary design tools also enable it to design wafer probe cards particularly suited for testing today’s low voltage, high power chips. Low voltage, high power chips require superior power supply performance, and the Company’s MicroSpring interconnect technology is used to provide a very low inductance, low resistance electrical path between the power source and the chip under test. 

      In July 2003, the Company publicly announced its MicroForce™ probing technology. This MicroForce probing technology combines a low probe force with stable low resistance electrical contact to address wafer test challenges for high-performance, flip chip applications, thereby reducing the risk of damage to both interconnect bumps and the low-k dielectrics that lie beneath them. By combining the Company’s new BladeRunner MicroSpring contact structure with our proprietary technology directed to the automated wafer prober chuck, FormFactor believes that its MicroForce probing technology will enable FormFactor’s customers to achieve a higher level of test accuracy, potentially increasing overall electrical yields by minimizing false failures. In July 2003, the Company also publicly announced its MicroLign™ alignment technology. The MicroLign alignment technology includes a proprietary probe tip design method developed to optimize automated optical alignment during wafer probing. When implemented, this technology enables a faster, more accurate optical alignment process, which reduces instances of optical alignment errors and can drive manufacturing efficiencies for high volume wafer test operations. 

      In November 2003, the Company introduced its S200™ high speed test technology, which combines high-speed signal performance with high parallelism to create a cost effective solution for full-speed functional test of mobile dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, die in wafer form. FormFactor’s S200 technology enables manufacturers of multi-chip packages to perform full-frequency production test on each memory die at data sheet specification speeds before the die is singulated from the wafer and assembled into the multi-chip package. In November 2003, the Company also introduced wafer-level burn-in (WLBI) wafer probe cards. FormFactor’s WLBI wafer probe cards enable DRAM chip manufacturers to perform burn-in type stress testing on die while still on the wafer and, consequently, improve final yields and reduce or completely eliminate the need for package level burn-in. 

      Because FormFactor customers typically use the Company’s wafer probe cards in a wide range of operating temperatures, as opposed to conducting wafer probe test at one predetermined temperature, the Company has designed complex thermal compensation characteristics into its products. The Company selects 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

its wafer probe card materials after careful consideration of the potential range of test operating temperatures and designs its wafer probe cards to provide for a precise match with the thermal expansion characteristics of the wafer under test. As a result, FormFactor wafer probe cards generally are able to accurately probe over a large range of operating temperatures. This feature enables the Company’s customers to use the same wafer probe card for both low and high temperature testing without a loss of performance. In addition, for those testing situations that require positional accuracy at a specific temperature, the Company has designed wafer probe cards optimized for testing at such temperatures. 
      FormFactor’s many spring shapes, different geometrically-precise tip structures, various array sizes and diverse printed circuit board layouts enable a wide variety of solutions for its customers. The Company’s designers select the most appropriate of these elements, or modify or improve upon such existing elements, and integrate them with the Company’s other technologies to deliver a custom solution optimized for the customer’s requirements. 

Customers 

      FormFactor’s customers include manufacturers in the DRAM, flash and logic markets. The Company’s customers use its wafer probe cards to test DRAM chips including DDR, RDRAM, SDRAM and EDRAM, static RAM chips, NOR and NAND flash memory chips, Serial Data devices, chipsets, microprocessors and microcontrollers. 

      In fiscal 2003, sales to four customers accounted for 66.2% of the Company’s revenues, with 30.1% attributable to Intel Corporation, 13.4% attributable to Spirox Corporation, the Company’s distributor, 12.4% attributable to Elpida and 10.3% attributable to Infineon Technologies AG. In fiscal 2002, sales to three customers accounted for 67.9% of the Company’s revenues, with 26.9% attributable to Intel Corporation, 20.9% attributable to Spirox Corporation and 20.1% attributable to Infineon Technologies AG. In fiscal 2001, sales to four customers accounted for approximately 75.1% of the Company’s revenues, with 26.4% attributable to Spirox Corporation, 20.2% attributable to Samsung Electronics Industries Co., Ltd., 16.1% attributable to Infineon Technologies AG and 12.4% attributable to Intel Corporation. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s revenues in any of these referenced periods. 

Backlog 

      FormFactor’s backlog increased from $13.8 million at December 28, 2002 to $25.3 million at December 27, 2003. FormFactor manufactures its wafer probe cards based on order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders for which written authorizations have been accepted, shipment dates within 12 months have been assigned and revenue has not been recognized. In addition, backlog includes service revenue for existing product service agreements to be earned within the next 12 months. 

Manufacturing 

      FormFactor’s wafer probe cards are custom products that the Company designs to order for its customers’ unique wafer designs. The Company manufactures its products at its facilities in Livermore, California. FormFactor’s proprietary manufacturing processes include wirebonding, photolithography, plating and metallurgical processes, dry and electro-deposition, and complex interconnection system design. The critical steps in the Company’s manufacturing process are performed in a Class 100 clean room environment. FormFactor also expends resources on the assembly and test of its wafer probe cards and on quality control. 

      The Company has deployed state of the art shop floor controls and systems that allow its operators to monitor and optimize manufacturing flows and capacity. FormFactor also uses statistical process control to further enhance the quality of its production processes. 

      FormFactor depends upon suppliers for some components of its manufacturing processes, including ceramic substrates and complex printed circuit boards, and for materials used in its manufacturing processes. Some of these components and materials are supplied by a single vendor. Generally, the Company relies on 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with its suppliers, which subjects the Company to risks including price increases and component shortages. Management continues to evaluate alternative sources of supply for these components and for materials. 
      FormFactor maintains a repair and service capability in Livermore, California. The Company provides service and maintenance capabilities in its service center in Seoul, South Korea. The Company also has a repair and service center in Dresden, Germany. Management plans to expand or enhance these capabilities to provide faster response time to its customers, maximizing the uptime of its wafer probe cards. 

Research, Development and Engineering 

      The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. Management believes that the Company’s continued commitment to research and development and timely introduction of new and enhanced wafer probe test solutions and other technologies related to its MicroSpring interconnect technology is integral to maintaining its competitive position. FormFactor is investing considerable time and resources in creating structured processes for undertaking, tracking and completing the Company’s development projects, and plans to implement those developments into new product or technology offerings. Management expects to continue to allocate significant resources to these efforts and to use automation and information technology to provide additional efficiencies in the Company’s research and development activities. 

      FormFactor has historically devoted on average approximately 20% of its revenues to research and development programs. Research and development expenses were $15.6 million for fiscal 2003, $14.6 million for fiscal 2002 and $14.6 million for fiscal 2001. 

      The Company’s research and development and product engineering activities are directed by individuals with significant expertise and industry experience. As of December 27, 2003, the Company had 74 employees in research and development, of which 62 worked on the design and development of new interconnect and contact technologies related to its core MicroSpring interconnect technology. Of these employees, 54 are engineers and 29 have PhD or MS degrees. 

Sales and Marketing 

      FormFactor sells its products primarily through a sales model that emphasizes the customer’s total cost of ownership as it relates to test costs. With this sales model, the Company strives to demonstrate how test costs can be reduced by simulating the customer’s test floor environment, including testers and probers, utilizing its product and comparing the overall cost of test to that of conventional wafer probe cards. 

      The Company sells its products worldwide primarily through its direct sales force, a distributor and independent sales representatives. As of December 27, 2003, FormFactor had 14 sales professionals. In North America, the Company sells its products through its direct sales force. In Europe, the Company’s local sales team works with independent sales representatives. In South Korea, the Company sells its products through its direct sales force, while in Taiwan, China and Singapore FormFactor sells through Spirox Corporation, the Company’s distributor in the region. In Japan, effective April 1, 2002, the Company converted from a distributor arrangement to a direct sales team that is based in Tokyo, Japan. 

      The Company’s marketing staff, located in Livermore, California and Tokyo, Japan, works closely with customers to understand their businesses, anticipate trends and define products that will provide significant technical and economic advantages to its customers. 

      FormFactor also utilizes a highly skilled team of field application engineers that support the Company’s customers as they integrate its products into their manufacturing processes. Through this process, the Company develops a close understanding of product and customer requirements, accelerating its customers’ production ramps. The Company plans to expand its customer support by adding engineering services. Management believes that this expanded service offering will enable the Company’s customers to more fully benefit from its products and technology and create new business opportunities for FormFactor. 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Environmental Matters 

      FormFactor is subject to U.S. federal and state and foreign governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Management believes that the Company complies with all material environmental laws and regulations that apply to FormFactor. In late 2003 and early 2004 FormFactor received notices from the California Department of Toxic Substances Control and the Bay Area Air Quality Management District regarding violations of certain environmental regulations. FormFactor promptly took appropriate steps to address all of the violations noted, believes that all such violations were addressed, and sent correspondence to the agencies confirming such corrective steps. In 2003, the Company resolved a Notice of Violation from the Bay Area Air Quality Management District through its corrective action and a payment of $2,100. At the present time it is not clear whether any monetary penalty will be imposed by the applicable agencies for the unresolved notices, and if so, the relative significance of the penalty, or whether the Company may be required to take further action. 

      It is possible that in the future, the Company may receive environmental violation notices, and that final resolution of the violations identified by these notices could harm its operating results. New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination at the Company’s or others’ sites or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could have a negative effect on the Company’s operating results. 

Competition 

      The highly competitive wafer probe card market is comprised of many domestic and foreign companies, and has historically been fragmented with many local suppliers servicing individual customers. Current and potential competitors in the wafer probe card market include Advantest Corporation, AMST Co., Ltd., Cascade Microtech, Inc., ESJ Corporation, Feinmetall GmbH, Japan Electronic Materials Corporation, Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc., Micronics Japan Co., Ltd., MicroProbe, Inc., NanoNexus Inc., Phicom Corporation, SCS Hightech, Inc., Tokyo Cathode Laboratory Co., Ltd. and Wentworth Laboratories, Inc., among others. In addition to the ability to address wafer probe card performance issues, the primary competitive factors in the Company’s industry include product quality and reliability, price, total cost of ownership, lead times, the ability to provide prompt and effective customer service, field applications support and timeliness of delivery. 

      Some of FormFactor’s competitors are also suppliers of other types of test equipment or other semiconductor equipment, or offer both advanced wafer probe cards and needle probe cards, and may have greater financial and other resources than the Company does. Management expects that the Company’s competitors will enhance their current wafer probe products and that they may introduce new products that will be competitive with FormFactor’s wafer probe cards. In addition, it is possible that new competitors, including test equipment manufacturers, may offer new technologies that reduce the value of the Company’s wafer probe cards. 

      Additionally, semiconductor manufacturers may implement chip designs that include built-in self-test capabilities or similar functions or methodologies that increase test throughput and eliminate some or all of the Company’s current competitive advantages. The Company’s ability to compete favorably is also negatively impacted by low volume orders that do not meet its present minimum volume requirements, by very short cycle time requirements that the Company cannot meet because of its design or manufacturing processes, by long-standing relationships between its competitors and certain semiconductor manufacturers, and by semiconductor manufacturer test strategies that include low performance semiconductor testers. 

Intellectual Property 

      FormFactor’s success depends in part upon its ability to maintain and protect its proprietary technology and to conduct the Company’s business without infringing the proprietary rights of others. The Company relies on a combination of patents, trade secret laws, trademarks and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect its intellectual property rights. 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      As of December 27, 2003, the Company had 189 issued patents, of which 102 are United States patents and 87 are foreign patents. The expiration dates of these patents range from 2013 to 2022. FormFactor’s issued patents cover the Company’s core interconnect technology, as well as some of its inventions related to wafer probe cards and testing, wafer-level packaging and test, sockets and assemblies and chips. In addition, as of December 27, 2003, FormFactor had 315 patent applications pending worldwide, including 118 United States applications, 177 foreign national or regional stage applications and 20 Patent Cooperation Treaty applications. Management does not know whether the Company’s current patent applications, or any future patent applications that the Company may file, will result in a patent being issued with the scope of the claims FormFactor seeks, or at all, or whether any patents that the Company may receive will be challenged or invalidated. Even if additional patents are issued, FormFactor’s patents might not provide sufficiently broad coverage to protect its proprietary rights or to avoid a third party claim against one or more of its products or technologies. 

      FormFactor has both registered and unregistered trademarks, including FormFactor, MicroSpring, MicroForce, MicroLign, MOST, TRE and the FormFactor logo. 

      FormFactor routinely requires its employees, customers, suppliers and potential business partners to enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements before the Company discloses to them any sensitive or proprietary information regarding its products, technology or business plans. The Company requires employees to assign to it proprietary information, inventions and other intellectual property they create, modify or improve. 

      Legal protections afford only limited protection for the Company’s proprietary rights. Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of its products or to obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary. Others might independently develop similar or competing technologies or methods or design around the Company’s patents. In addition, leading companies in the semiconductor industry have extensive patent portfolios and other intellectual property with respect to semiconductor technology. In the future, FormFactor might receive claims that it is infringing intellectual property rights of others or that its patents or other intellectual property rights are invalid. FormFactor has received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties inquiring about our interest in licensing certain of their intellectual property or more generally identifying intellectual property that may be of interest to the Company. 

      FormFactor has invested significant time and resources in its technology, and as a part of its ongoing efforts to protect the intellectual property embodied in its proprietary technology, including its MicroSpring interconnect technology, the Company will be required to enforce its intellectual property rights against any infringing third parties. On February 24, 2004, the Company filed in the Seoul Southern District Court, located in Seoul, South Korea, two separate complaints against Phicom Corporation, a Korean corporation, alleging infringement of a total of four Korean patents issued to FormFactor, and is seeking injunctive relief. Litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, to determine the validity and scope of the Company’s proprietary rights or those of others, to enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights or to protect its trade secrets. If FormFactor threatens or initiates litigation, the Company may be subject to claims by third parties against which it must defend. Intellectual property litigation, whether or not it is resolved in the Company’s favor, is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from running FormFactor’s business. If an infringement claim against the Company resulted in a ruling adverse to it, FormFactor could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the use or sale of infringing products, spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain technology or obtain a license to the technology. Management cannot predict whether a license agreement would be available, or whether the terms and conditions would be acceptable to the Company. In addition, many of FormFactor customer contracts contain provisions that require the Company to indemnify its customers for third party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to FormFactor of an adverse ruling in such a claim. An adverse determination could also prevent the Company from licensing its technologies and methods to others. 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Employees 

      As of December 27, 2003, FormFactor had 341 full-time employees, including 74 in research and development, 45 in sales and marketing, 26 in general and administrative functions, and 196 in operations. By region, 306 of the Company’s employees were in North America, 20 in Japan, 11 in South Korea and 4 in Europe. No employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The Company believes that its relations with its employees is good. 

Executive Officers 

      The names of the Company’s executive officers, their ages as of December 27, 2003 and their positions with FormFactor are set forth below. 

              
Name  Age  Position 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Dr. Igor Y. Khandros      49     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director  
Benjamin N. Eldridge      42     Senior Vice President of Development and Chief Technical Officer  
Yoshikazu Hatsukano      64     Senior Vice President of Asia-Pacific Operations and President of FormFactor K.K.  
Peter B. Mathews      41     Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales  
Stuart L. Merkadeau      42     Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary  
Jens Meyerhoff      39     Senior Vice President of Operations and Chief Financial Officer  
Michael M. Ludwig      42     Vice President of Finance, and Controller  

      Dr. Igor Y. Khandros founded FormFactor in April 1993. Dr. Khandros has served as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer as well as a Director since April 1993. From 1990 to 1992, Dr. Khandros served as the Vice President of Development of Tessera, Inc., a provider of chip scale packaging technology that he co-founded. From 1986 to 1990, he was employed at the Yorktown Research Center of IBM Corporation as a member of the technical staff and a manager. From 1979 to 1985, Dr. Khandros was employed at ABEX Corporation, a casting foundry and composite parts producer, as a research metallurgist and a manager, and he was an engineer from 1977 to 1978 at the Institute of Casting Research in Kiev, Russia. Dr. Khandros holds a M.S. equivalent degree in metallurgical engineering from Kiev Polytechnic Institute in Kiev, Russia, and a Ph.D. in metallurgy from Stevens Institute of Technology. 

      Benjamin N. Eldridge has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President of Development and Chief Technical Officer since September 2000. Mr. Eldridge also served as the Company’s Vice President of Development from June 1997 to September 2000, as our Director of Development from June 1995 to June 1997 and as our Manager of Development Engineering from November 1994 to May 1995. From 1984 to October 1994, he was employed at the TJ Watson Research Center of IBM Corporation, where he held various engineering positions in the Physical Sciences and Computer Science departments. Mr. Eldridge holds a B.S. in electrical engineering from Union College and a M.S. in physics from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. 

      Yoshikazu Hatsukano has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President of Asia-Pacific Operations since April 2001, and as the President of FormFactor K.K., a wholly owned subsidiary, since December 1998. From 1961 to October 1998, Mr. Hatsukano was employed by various companies affiliated with Hitachi, Ltd., where he held several management positions including the President of Hitachi Micro Systems, Inc. from 1991 to October 1998 and the Vice General Manager of the Hitachi Semiconductor Design and Development Center from 1990 to 1991. Mr. Hatsukano holds a B.S. in electronics from Kyoto University in Kyoto, Japan. 

      Peter B. Mathews has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since October 2003. Mr. Mathews served as the Company’s Vice President of Worldwide Sales from April 1999 to September 2003, and as our Director, Worldwide Sales and Business Development from March 1997 to April 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

1999. From May 1992 to March 1997, Mr. Mathews was employed at MicroModule Systems, a manufacturer of multichip modules and interconnect test products, where he most recently held the position of Director of Marketing and Business Development. From 1989 to May 1992, he served as the U.S. Sales Manager for the Advanced Packaging Systems Division of Raychem Corporation, a component manufacturer for electronic and energy applications that was acquired by Tyco Electronics Ltd. Mr. Mathews holds a B.S. in chemical engineering from Cornell University. 
      Stuart L. Merkadeau has served as a Senior Vice President since October 2003 and as the Company’s General Counsel and Secretary since October 2002. Mr. Merkadeau served as one of the Company’s Vice Presidents from October 2002 to September 2003, and as the Company’s Vice President of Intellectual Property from July 2000 to October 2002. From 1990 to July 2000, Mr. Merkadeau practiced law as an associate and then a partner with Graham & James LLP, where he specialized in licensing and strategic counseling in intellectual property matters. Mr. Merkadeau is admitted to practice in California and registered to practice before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Mr. Merkadeau holds a B.S. in industrial engineering from Northwestern University and a J.D. from the University of California at Los Angeles. 

      Jens Meyerhoff  has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President of Operations since January 2003 and as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer since August 2000. He served as a Senior Vice President from August 2000 to January 2003, and as the Company’s Secretary from April 2002 to October 2002. From March 1998 to August 2000, Mr. Meyerhoff served as the Chief Financial Officer and the Senior Vice President, Materials at Siliconix Incorporated, a manufacturer of power and analog semiconductor products. From 1991 to February 1998, Mr. Meyerhoff was employed in various corporate controller and financial positions with the North American subsidiaries as well as the German headquarters of Daimler-Benz AG. Mr. Meyerhoff holds a German Wirtschaftsinformatiker degree, which is the equivalent of a finance and information technology degree, from Daimler-Benz’s Executive Training program. 

      Michael M. Ludwig has served as the Company’s Vice President of Finance, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since December 2003. From March 2001 to November 2003, Mr. Ludwig served as Vice President of Human Resources and Finance, and Controller. From January 1999 to March 2001, Mr. Ludwig was employed at Elo TouchSystems, Inc., a touch screen manufacturing company, where he most recently served as the Vice President, Systems and Services Group. From 1989 to January 1999, Mr. Ludwig was employed by Beckman Coulter, Inc., a medical diagnostics and life sciences equipment manufacturer, and various of its subsidiaries, holding positions including Finance Director, Clinical Chemistry Division; Director, Strategic Planning and Finance; and Controller. Mr. Ludwig holds a B.S. in business administration from California State Polytechnic University at Pomona. 

Available Information 

      FormFactor’s Internet website is located at http://www.formfactor.com. Please note that information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. FormFactor makes available free of charge on its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

      The public may also read and copy any materials that FormFactor files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as FormFactor, that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet website is located at http://www.sec.gov. 
