ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     Integrated  Device  Technology,  Inc.  ("IDT"  or the  "Company")  designs,
develops,   manufactures   and  markets  a  broad   range  of   high-performance
semiconductor  products and modules.  Applications  for IDT's products  include:
data  networking  and  telecommunications  equipment,  such  as  routers,  hubs,
switches,  cellular  base  stations and other  devices;  storage  area  networks
(SANs); other networked peripherals and servers; and personal computers.

     The Company  markets its  products on a worldwide  basis  primarily to OEMs
(original equipment  manufacturers)  through a variety of channels,  including a
direct  sales force,  distributors  and  independent  sales  representatives.  A
significant   portion  of  the  Company's  sales  are  to  contract   electronic
manufacturers (CEMs). Certain of the Company's larger OEM customers buy products
from these CEMs which incorporate IDT products.

     The Company  attempts  to  differentiate  its  products  from  competitors'
products  through advanced  architectures  and features,  enhanced  performance,
reduced system cost and packaging options.  IDT fabricates  substantially all of
its semiconductor wafers using advanced CMOS (complementary metal oxide silicon)
process technology in its own wafer fabrication facilities.

     In  fiscal  2000,  the  Company   completed  the   acquisition  of  Quality
Semiconductor, Inc. ("QSI"). QSI had been engaged in the design, development and
marketing of high-performance logic and networking semiconductor products.

     IDT was incorporated in California in 1980 and  reincorporated  in Delaware
in  1987.  The  terms  the  "Company"  and  "IDT"  refer  to  Integrated  Device
Technology, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates
otherwise.

PRODUCTS AND MARKETS

     The Company  operated in three  business  segments  during the three fiscal
     years ended April 2, 2000:

         o    Communications and High-Performance Logic

         o    SRAMs and Other

         o    x86 Microprocessors

---------------------
Trademark  notice:   RISController,  SuperSync,  and  Zero  Bus  Turnaround  are
trademarks  of  Integrated  Device  Technology,  Inc.  QSI and  QuickSwitch  are
trademarks  of  Quality  Semiconductor,  Inc.,  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of
Integrated Device Technology,  Inc. ZBT is a registered  trademark of Integrated
Device  Technology,  Inc.,  and the  architecture  is  supported  by Micron  and
Motorola.

                                        2

<PAGE>

     The   Communications   and   High-Performance    Logic   segment   includes
communications memories, communications  applications-specific standard products
(ASSPs),   embedded  RISC   microprocessors  and   high-performance   logic  and
clock-management  devices.  The  SRAMs  and  Other  segment  consists  mainly of
high-speed SRAMs (static random access memories).

     Products  in the SRAM and Other  segment  are  generally  characterized  as
commodity (or industry  standard)  products which typically have exhibited lower
gross  margins  and  high  unit  volumes.  Products  in the  Communications  and
High-Performance  Logic segment,  with the exception of some logic devices, tend
to have lower unit sales and higher margins. Products in these segments are also
manufactured using different levels of process technology. A significant portion
of the wafers  produced for the SRAMs and Other segment are  fabricated at IDT's
advanced technology,  eight-inch wafer production facility in Hillsboro, Oregon.
Most  wafers for the  Communications  and  High-Performance  Logic  segment  are
produced at IDT's  older,  six-inch  facility  located in  Salinas,  California,
although  certain new  communications  memories,  network  products and embedded
processors are being introduced into production at the Hillsboro facility.

     The  Company  offers   approximately   1,750  products  in  11,200  product
configurations.  IDT's  product  design  efforts are  focused on  differentiated
components and  integration of its components  into single  devices,  modules or
subsystems to meet the needs of its customers.

     During fiscal 2000, the  Communications and  High-Performance  Logic, SRAMs
and Other and x86 Microprocessors  segments accounted for approximately 71%, 28%
and 1% respectively, of total IDT revenues of $701.7 million.

Communications and High-Performance Logic Segment

     Communications    Products   and   Networking   Devices.    The   Company's
communications  products in this segment are either  proprietary or have limited
alternative sources of supply. These include FIFO memories, multi-port memories,
and communications ASSPs that offer high-performance features for communications
and networking systems. FIFO memories are used as rate buffers to transfer large
amounts of data at high speeds between  separate  devices or pieces of equipment
operating at different speeds within a system,  when the order of the data to be
transferred  needs to be controlled.  New families of FIFO memories also perform
data organizing  functions such as adapting the width and speed of incoming data
to  system  requirements.  Multi-port  memory  products  are used to speed  data
transfers  and act as the link  between  multiple  microprocessors  and the same
memory bank, or between  microprocessors  and  peripherals.  These  products are
currently used primarily in peripheral  interface,  wireless  communications and
networking  products,  including  switches and  wireless  base  stations.  IDT's
network  products family uses emerging  network  technology  designed to support
higher  bandwidth  applications in the  convergence of voice,  data and wireless
networks.

     IDT is a  leading  supplier  of  both  synchronous  and  asynchronous  FIFO
memories and has increasingly focused its resources on the design of synchronous
FIFO  memories.  Synchronous  FIFO  memories  have been gaining  greater  market
acceptance  because  they are faster and provide an easier user  interface  than
asynchronous FIFO memories.  IDT's family of 9-bit,  18-bit and 36-bit Sync FIFO
memories  are  being  used  in  many  newer,   more  powerful   networking   and
telecommunications  products.  IDT believes that the  SuperSync(TM) II family of
FIFO  memories  provides  the  highest  density  (4-Mbit),  highest  performance
(133MHz) and broadest feature sets commercially available.

     The Company is also a leading supplier of multi-port memory products. IDT's
family of  multi-port  memories is composed of dual-port  asynchronous  devices,
four-port  products,  and  synchronous  dual-port  devices,  including  what the
Company  believes  to  be  the  highest-density  (1-Mbit),   highest-performance
(166MHz) and widest word-width (x36) dual-ports commercially available.

     Communications  ASSP  products  include  an  ATM  switching  chipset,   ATM
segmentation   and   reassembly   controllers,   and  physical   interface   and
muxing/demuxing  devices that are used to  interconnect  systems and  facilitate
data transmission in networks.

                                        3

<PAGE>

Logic  and  Clock  Management  Products.   IDT  is  a  leading  manufacturer  of
high-speed,   byte-wide  and  double-density  16-bit  CMOS  logic  circuits  for
high-performance applications. Logic circuits control data communication between
various elements of electronic  systems,  such as between a microprocessor and a
memory circuit.  IDT offers a wide range of logic circuits products that support
bus  and  backplane  interfaces,  memory  interfaces  and  other  logic  support
applications  where high speed and low power are critical.  IDT's logic circuits
are used in a broad range of markets.  The Company recently  introduced Advanced
Low Voltage  CMOS (ALVC) and Low Voltage  CMOS (LVC) logic  products.  These low
voltage  products  are  expected to  represent a rapidly  growing  sector of the
high-performance logic market.

     IDT's 16-bit logic products are available in small, thin packages, enabling
board area to be reduced.  These products are designed for applications in which
small size, low power and extra low noise are as important as high speed.

     The  Company  also offers a family of clock  drivers and clock  generators.
These devices, placed at critical positions in a system, correct the degradation
of timing  that  occurs the  further  the  impulses  travel from the main system
clock.

     IDT completed its  acquisition  of QSI in fiscal 2000.  QSI's  products are
largely   complementary   to  IDT's   logic   product   lines  and  include  the
QuickSwitch(R) bus switch and TurboClock(TM) clock management families.

     Embedded   RISC   Microprocessors.   IDT  markets   its   RISController(TM)
microprocessors  which  represent a broad line of 32-bit and 64-bit  stand alone
processors and integrated  processors based on the MIPS  architecture.  IDT is a
leading  supplier  of  MIPS  processors  to the  communications  and  networking
markets.

     The Company focuses its RISC microprocessor  marketing efforts primarily on
the embedded controller market.  Embedded  controllers are microprocessors  that
control a single device such as a network  router or switch,  printer or set-top
box. The Company  provides its customers with integrated  solutions for embedded
control,  including engineering tools such as RTOS (Real Time Operating System),
compilers, reference designs and technical support.

     Shortly after the end of fiscal 2000, IDT  introduced its first  integrated
processor  based on its RC32300 32-bit core.  This device  incorporates an SDRAM
controller,  PCI bridge, and two serial ports. The RC32334 utilizes IDT's unique
IPBus, a hardware  interconnect  approach that enables more rapid integration of
intellectual property (IP) blocks with the CPU core. This product represents the
first in what is expected to be a family of integrated processors from IDT.

SRAMs and Other Segment

     SRAMs are memory circuits used for storage and retrieval of data during the
operation of a communications or computing system.  Unlike DRAMs (dynamic random
access  memories),  SRAMs do not require  electrical  refreshment  of the memory
contents  to ensure data  integrity,  allowing  them to operate at high  speeds.
SRAMs  include  substantially  more  circuitry  than DRAMs,  resulting in higher
production  costs for a given amount of memory,  and  generally  command  higher
selling prices than the equivalent density traditional DRAM products. The market
for  SRAMs is  fragmented  by  differing  demands  for  speed,  power,  density,
organization and packaging.

     Historically,  the Company focused primarily on the cache memory segment of
the SRAM market.  But, in fiscal 2000, the PC/server cache segment represented a
very  small  percentage  of  IDT's  SRAM  revenues,  and it is not  expected  to
contribute  significantly  to the  Company's  future  revenues.  IDT's family of
ZBT(R) (Zero Bus  Turnaround(TM))  SRAMs  eliminate wait states between read and
write cycles and are targeted at meeting the  specific  needs of  communications
customers.

     To provide SRAM products that meet the varying needs of its customers,  IDT
offers  16K,  64K,  256K,  1-Mbit  and  4-Mbit  SRAMs  in  a  number  of  speed,
organization,  power and packaging configurations.  Higher density SRAM products
and  products  with  additional  features  believed to be  important to the data
networking markets, are in the development stage.

                                        4

<PAGE>

x86 Microprocessors Segment

     The Company  completed  the sale of x86  intellectual  property and its x86
design subsidiary to Via Technologies,  Inc. ("Via"), a Taiwanese  company,  and
its  partners  in  fiscal  2000  (see  Note  14 to  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements). The Company also entered into a patent cross license agreement with
Via  relating to certain  non-x86 IDT  patents.  The Company  does not expect to
realize any future revenues from the sale of x86 products.

Customers

     The Company  markets and sells its products on a worldwide  basis primarily
to OEMs in its three  business  segments.  Products  in the  Communications  and
High-Performance  Logic segment are sold primarily to communications  customers.
Although  products in the SRAMs and Other segment are general purpose in nature,
IDT supplies the majority of its products in this segment to its  communications
customers. Customers often purchase products from more than one of the Company's
product  families.  No one OEM direct customer  accounted for 10% or more of the
Company's  revenues in fiscal 2000,  1999 or 1998. A significant  portion of the
Company's sales are to CEMs. When  considering  sales through all sales channels
(OEM direct,  distribution and contract manufacturing),  one end customer, Cisco
Systems,  Inc.  ("Cisco"),  accounts,  in  aggregate,  for more  than 10% of the
Company's  revenues.  Because of  limitations in the amount of end customer data
made  available  to IDT by its  CEM  customers,  IDT is not  able  to  precisely
determine the aggregate percentage of its sales which are attributable to Cisco.
However,  based  upon  the  best  available  information,   IDT  estimates  that
end-customer  sales  to  Cisco  range  between  approximately  15-20%  of  IDT's
revenues, depending on product mix consumed.

Marketing and Sales

     IDT markets and sells its  products  primarily to OEMs through a variety of
channels,  including a direct sales force,  distributors  and independent  sales
representatives. The Company also markets and sells products to CEMs.

     The Company had 73 direct sales  personnel in the United States as of April
2, 2000. Such personnel are based at the Company's  headquarters and in 18 sales
offices  in  Alabama,   California,   Colorado,  Florida,  Illinois,   Maryland,
Massachusetts,  Minnesota, New Jersey, North Carolina, Oregon and Texas, and are
primarily  responsible  for  marketing and sales in those U.S.  areas.  IDT also
utilizes three national distributors, Avnet, Inc., Wyle Laboratories and Insight
Electronics,  Inc.,  and several  regional  distributors  in the United  States.
Worldwide sales to Avnet, Inc.  accounted for approximately  19%, 22% and 15% of
the Company's revenues in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. In addition,
IDT uses independent  sales  representatives,  which generally take orders on an
agency  basis  while  the  Company   ships   directly  to  the   customer.   The
representatives  receive  commissions  on all  products  shipped to customers in
their geographic area.

     In addition, the Company had 71 direct sales personnel and 14 sales offices
located  outside of the  United  States as of April 2,  2000.  Sales  activities
outside North America are generally  conducted by IDT's subsidiaries  located in
France, Germany, Hong Kong, Israel, Italy, Korea, Japan,  Singapore,  Sweden and
the United Kingdom. The Company also has sales offices in Taiwan,  Malaysia, the
Netherlands and Finland.  A significant  portion of export sales continues to be
made  through  international  distributors  in Europe,  Asia-Pacific  and Japan.
During fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998,  non-U.S.  sales accounted for  approximately
38%,  37% and 39% of total  revenues,  respectively.  Sales  outside  the United
States,  except for Japan, are generally  denominated in the U.S. dollar.  Sales
and other financial information for foreign operations is included in Note 11 of
the Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this Form
10-K. Export sales are subject to certain risks, including currency controls and
fluctuations,  changes in local  economic and political  conditions,  import and
export control, and changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates.

     The  Company's  distributors  typically  maintain  an  inventory  of a wide
variety of products,  including  products  offered by IDT's  competitors.  IDT's
distributors  provide  inventory  management  and  logistics  programs for their
customers and also handle small or rush orders. A portion of the Company's sales
is made to distributors  under  agreements  which allow certain rights of return
and price  protection on products unsold by the  distributors.  Related revenues
and costs of revenues  thereon are deferred until the products are resold by the
distributors.

                                        5

<PAGE>

Manufacturing

     IDT  believes  that  maintaining  its  own  wafer  fabrication   capability
facilitates the  implementation of advanced process  technologies,  provides the
Company with a reliable source of supply of  semiconductors  and allows it to be
more flexible in shifting  production  according to product demand.  The Company
currently operates sub-micron wafer fabrication facilities in Hillsboro,  Oregon
and Salinas,  California.  The Oregon  facility  first  contributed  to revenues
beginning in fiscal  1997.  The 192,000  square foot  facility,  which  produces
substantially  all of the wafers  fabricated  for IDT's SRAMs and Other segment,
contains a 48,000  square  foot,  class 1 (less than one  particle 0.5 micron or
greater in size per cubic foot),  eight-inch wafer fabrication line. The Salinas
facility,  first placed in production  in fiscal 1986,  includes a 24,000 square
foot, class 3 (less than three particles 0.5 micron or greater in size per cubic
foot),   six-inch  wafer   fabrication  line.  Most  wafers  for  the  Company's
Communications  and  High-Performance  Logic segment are produced at the Salinas
plant.

     IDT supplements its internal wafer  fabrication  capacity with  subcontract
wafer manufacturing capacity.

     In fiscal  2000,  as part of the merger with QSI,  the  Company  acquired a
41,000 square foot wafer fabrication  facility with  approximately  5,500 square
feet of clean room space in Sydney,  Australia,  and other manufacturing  assets
which were used to produce wafers for logic product families  acquired from QSI.
In May  2000,  the  Company  completed  the  sale of  these  and  other  surplus
manufacturing assets.

     IDT also operates two  component  assembly and test  facilities,  a 145,000
square foot facility in Penang, Malaysia and a 176,000 square-foot facility near
Manila, the Philippines.  Substantially all of the Company's test operations and
a significant  portion of its assembly operations are performed at its Malaysian
and Philippines facilities. IDT also uses subcontractors,  principally in Korea,
the  Philippines  and  Malaysia,   to  perform  certain   assembly  and  burn-in
operations.  If IDT were unable to assemble or test products offshore, or if air
transportation to these locations were curtailed, the Company's operations could
be materially adversely affected.  Additionally,  foreign  manufacturing exposes
IDT to certain risks generally associated with doing business abroad,  including
foreign governmental regulations,  currency controls and fluctuation, changes in
local economic and political conditions, import and export controls, and changes
in tax laws,  tariffs and freight rates.  In addition to this offshore  assembly
and test  capability,  the Company has the capacity for  low-volume,  quick-turn
assembly  in its Santa  Clara,  California  facilities  as well as limited  test
capabilities in Salinas.

     The  Company  utilizes  proprietary  CMOS  process  technology   permitting
sub-micron  geometries  in its  fabrication  facilities.  The  majority of IDT's
current products are manufactured using its proprietary 0.5, 0.35, 0.25 and 0.18
micron processes. The Company is expanding use of its 0.18 micron CMOS processes
in its Hillsboro facility. The Company continues to develop advanced versions of
its 0.18 micron processes as well as processes below 0.18 microns.

     Wafer fabrication involves a highly sophisticated,  complex process that is
extremely sensitive to contamination. Integrated circuit manufacturing costs are
primarily  determined  by circuit  size  because the yield of good  circuits per
wafer generally  increases as a function of smaller die. Other factors affecting
costs include wafer size, number of process steps,  costs and  sophistication of
manufacturing  equipment,  packaging type,  process  complexity and cleanliness.
IDT's  manufacturing  process is complex,  involving a number of steps including
wafer  fabrication,  plastic or ceramic  packaging,  burn-in and final test. The
Company  continually makes changes to its  manufacturing  process to lower costs
and improve yields. From time to time, the Company has experienced manufacturing
problems that have caused delays in shipments or increased costs.  Manufacturing
problems at its wafer fabrication,  assembly or test facilities could materially
adversely affect the Company's results of operations.

     The Company is dependent on a limited  number of suppliers of raw materials
(see "Factors Affecting Future Results.")

                                        6

<PAGE>

Backlog

     The  Company's  backlog  of orders  as of April 2,  2000 was  approximately
$288.6  million  ($142.1  million as of March 28,  1999).  The  Company  defines
backlog as all confirmed,  unshipped  orders.  IDT manufactures and markets both
products with limited or no second sources and industry-standard products. Sales
are generally made pursuant to purchase orders,  which are frequently revised to
reflect  changes in the  customer's  requirements.  The Company has also entered
into master purchase agreements with many of its OEM customers. These agreements
do not  require  the  OEMs  to  purchase  minimum  quantities  of the  Company's
products.  Product  deliveries  are  scheduled  upon the  Company's  receipt  of
purchase  orders under the related OEM  agreements.  Generally,  these  purchase
orders and OEM agreements,  especially those for standard  products,  also allow
customers  to  reschedule  delivery  dates and cancel  purchase  orders  without
significant  penalties.  Orders,  especially for industry standard products, are
frequently made with very short lead times, rescheduled, revised or canceled. In
addition,  distributor orders are subject to price adjustments both prior to and
after shipment.  For these reasons, IDT believes that backlog should not be used
as an indicator of future revenues.

Research and Development

     IDT's competitive position has been established, to a large extent, through
its emphasis on the development of both  proprietary  and  enhanced-performance,
industry standard products, as well as the development of the Company's advanced
CMOS processes. IDT believes that its focus on continually advancing its process
technologies  has  allowed  the  Company  to  achieve  cost  reductions  in  the
manufacture of most of its products.  The Company believes that a continued high
level of  research  and  development  expenditures  is  necessary  to retain its
competitive position.  The Company maintains research and development centers in
Santa Clara, California;  Hillsboro, Oregon; and Atlanta, Georgia. In June 2000,
the Company  announced  that it is opening a design  center near Dallas,  Texas.
Also,  with the  acquisition  of QSI,  the  Company  now has a design  center in
Sydney,  Australia.  Research and development  expenditures,  as a percentage of
revenues,  were  approximately  15%, 24% and 20% in fiscal 2000,  1999 and 1998,
respectively.

     The Company's product  development  activities are focused on the design of
new circuits  that provide new features and enhanced  performance  primarily for
growing  communications  markets  applications.  In the communications  products
area, IDT's efforts are concentrated on the development of advanced  synchronous
FIFO  memories,   more   sophisticated   multi-port   memory  products  for  the
communications   market  and  other  families  of  products  which  feature  the
integration of the Company's logic and memory  technologies.  Additionally,  the
Company continues its efforts to develop a family of specialty  products for the
network  products market and a family of lower voltage logic devices for a broad
range of  applications.  The  Company is  emphasizing  the design of  integrated
RISC-based  controllers for internet related embedded control applications.  The
Company also  continues to refine its CMOS  process  technology  to increase the
speed and  density of  circuits  in order to  provide  customers  with  advanced
products at competitive prices. The Company continues to refine its CMOS process
technology focusing on 0.18 micron and below geometry processes,  and converting
the production of products to newer generation processes.

Competition

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by
rapid technological advances,  cyclical market patterns, price erosion, evolving
industry standards,  occasional  shortages of materials,  intellectual  property
disputes, high capital equipment costs and uncertain availability of and control
over   manufacturing   capacity.   Many  of  the  Company's   competitors   have
substantially   greater  technical,   marketing,   manufacturing  and  financial
resources than IDT. In addition,  several foreign competitors receive assistance
from their  governments in the form of research and development loans and grants
and reduced capital costs,  which could give them a competitive  advantage.  The
Company competes in different product areas, to varying degrees, on the basis of
technical  innovation  and  performance  of its  products,  as well as  quality,
product  availability  and price. As described  under the heading  "Products and
Markets," products in the SRAMs and Other segment can generally be characterized
as commodity-type items and tend to be most price sensitive.

                                        7

<PAGE>

     IDT's  competitive  strategy  is  to  differentiate  its  products  through
high-performance, innovative configurations, proprietary features and breadth of
product  offerings.  Price  competition,  introductions of new products by IDT's
competitors, delays in product introductions by IDT or other competitive factors
could have a material adverse effect on the Company in the future.

     While  IDT has a  majority  share in the  markets  for FIFO and  multi-port
products,  some of the products  offered by IDT compete  with  similar  products
offered  by Cypress  Semiconductor  Corporation  ("Cypress")  as well as certain
custom memory or logic products.  IDT's RISC-based  microprocessors compete with
products  offered  by other  vendors  of such  microprocessors,  such as Quantum
Effect Devices Inc. and NEC Corporation, and with microprocessors based on other
architectures,  such as those offered by Intel and Motorola,  Inc. ("Motorola").
IDT's  competitors for logic sales include both U.S. and foreign  manufacturers,
such as Texas Instruments  Incorporated and Pericom  Semiconductor  Corporation.
Certain of IDT's network  products  compete with products offered by PMC-Sierra,
Inc.

     In markets  where IDT competes to sell industry  standard SRAM  components,
market supply and pricing  strategies of  competitors  significantly  impact the
price the Company  receives  for its  products.  In fiscal  years  1996-1998,  a
significant  increase  in market  supply of  industry  standard  SRAM  parts was
attributable  to  IDT's  principally  foreign  competitors  shifting  additional
production  capacity to these parts.  The decline in average  selling prices for
industry standard SRAM parts during this period was, therefore,  attributable to
increases in available SRAM supply from competitors such as Samsung Electronics,
Winbond Electronics Corp., United  Microelectronics Corp. (UMC), other Taiwanese
and Korean  companies as well as U.S.-based  companies with Taiwanese and Korean
sourced SRAM  wafers,  and to their market  pricing  strategies,  at a time when
market demand slowed as customers reduced the level of inventories  carried. The
Company's  U.S.-based  competitors  in the SRAM area include  Cypress and Micron
Technology, Inc. ("Micron").

Intellectual Property and Licensing

     IDT  recognizes  that its  intellectual  property  is a valuable  corporate
asset,  and continues to invest heavily in protecting these assets for advancing
the  goals of its  business.  A number  of the  Company's  circuit  designs  are
registered  pursuant to the Semiconductor  Chip Protection Act of 1984. This Act
gives protection  similar to copyright  protection for the patterns which appear
on integrated circuits and prohibits competitors from making photographic copies
of such  circuits.  The Company  intends to continue its efforts to increase the
breadth of its patent  portfolio.  There can be no  assurance  that any  patents
issued to the Company will not be challenged,  invalidated or circumvented, that
the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company
or that the Company's  efforts  generally to protect its  intellectual  property
rights will be successful.

     In recent  years,  there has been a growing trend of companies to resort to
litigation to protect their  semiconductor  technology from  unauthorized use by
others.  In the past, the Company has been involved in patent  litigation  which
adversely  affected  its  operating  results.  Although the Company has obtained
patent licenses from certain semiconductor  manufacturers,  the Company does not
have  licenses  from a number of  semiconductor  manufacturers  who have a broad
portfolio of patents.

     IDT has been notified that it may be infringing  patents  issued to certain
parties,  and is currently involved in licensing  negotiations.  There can be no
assurance that additional claims alleging  infringement of intellectual property
rights, including infringement of patents that have been or may be issued in the
future, will not be made against the Company in the future or that licenses,  to
the extent required,  will be available.  Should licenses from any such claimant
be  unavailable,  or not be available on terms  acceptable  to the Company,  the
Company may be  required  to  discontinue  its use of certain  processes  or the
manufacture,  use and sale of  certain  of its  products,  to incur  significant
litigation costs and damages or to develop non-infringing  technology. If IDT is
unable to obtain  any  necessary  licenses,  pass any  increased  cost of patent
licenses on to its customers or develop non-infringing  technology,  the Company
could be materially  adversely  affected.  In addition,  IDT has received patent
licenses from several  companies that expire over time, and the failure to renew
or renegotiate certain of these licenses could have a material adverse effect on
the Company.

                                        8

<PAGE>

Environmental Regulation

     Federal,  State and local  provisions  regulate the  discharge and disposal
into  the   environment  of  certain   materials   used  in  the   semiconductor
manufacturing  process.  The  Company's  manufacturing  and  assembly  and  test
facilities  are designed to comply with  existing  regulations,  and the Company
believes  that its  activities  conform  to  present  regulations.  The  Company
believes that it has been conducting its operations  with all necessary  permits
and without  material adverse impact  attributable to environmental  regulation.
However,  there  can  be no  assurance  that  future  additions  or  changes  to
environmental  regulations  will not impose upon the Company the requirement for
significant capital expenditure.  Further, any failure by the Company to control
the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of hazardous materials under
present or future regulations could subject it to substantial liability or could
cause its manufacturing  operations to be suspended.  In addition,  IDT could be
held financially  responsible for remedial measures if its properties were found
to be  contaminated  whether  or  not  the  Company  was  responsible  for  such
contamination.

Employees

     At April 2, 2000, IDT and its  subsidiaries  employed  approximately  4,800
people  worldwide,  of  whom  1,400  were  in  Malaysia  and  1,200  were in the
Philippines.  IDT's success depends in part on its ability to attract and retain
qualified personnel,  who are generally in great demand. Since its founding, the
Company  has  implemented  policies  enabling  its  employees  to share in IDT's
success such as  participation in stock option,  stock purchase,  profit sharing
and bonus  plans for key  contributors.  IDT has never had a work  stoppage.  No
employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement,  and the Company
considers its employee relations to be good.
