ITEM 1. BUSINESS 


        We design, develop, manufacture and market a broad range of high-performance semiconductor products. Applications for our products include: data networking and telecommunications equipment, such as routers, hubs, switches, cellular base stations and other devices; storage area networks (SANs); other networked peripherals and servers; and personal computers. 

        We market our products on a worldwide basis primarily to OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) through a variety of channels, including a direct sales force, distributors, CEMs (contract equipment manufacturers), and independent sales representatives. 

        We attempt to differentiate our products from competitors' offerings through advanced architectures and features designed to enhance the performance of our customers' systems, accelerate their product development cycles, and reduce their system costs. We fabricate substantially all of our semiconductor wafers using advanced complementary metal oxide silicon (CMOS) process technology in our own fabrication facilities. We assemble or package the majority of our products in manufacturing facilities that we own in Malaysia and the Philippines, where we also conduct product test operations. 

        In fiscal 2002, we acquired Newave Semiconductor Corp. (Newave), a privately held designer and marketer of integrated circuits for the telecommunications markets. In fiscal 2000, we acquired Quality Semiconductor, Inc. (QSI), which had been engaged in the design, development and marketing of high-performance logic, timing, and networking semiconductor products. 

        IDT was incorporated in California in 1980 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1987. The terms "the Company," "IDT," "our," "us" and "we" refer to Integrated Device Technology, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

PRODUCTS AND MARKETS 

        We provide a broad portfolio of communications-oriented integrated circuits (ICs) focused on delivering increased bandwidth for the converging global network. Our core competency is in the development and integration of processor, logic and advanced memory technologies into IC solutions that enhance network performance, maximize bandwidth, enable quality of service (QoS) or "network intelligence," and speed time to market. We offer approximately 1,300 devices in over 14,000 product configurations. 

        We believe that network architectures, which originated in data communications, are and will continue to be the underlying technology of the converging network of data, voice and other information media. We plan to apply our expertise to both data-oriented applications and multi-service classes of equipment to address customer needs in the following market areas: 

•
Enterprise and carrier-class infrastructures (routers, switches, multi-service access switches, load balancers, and virtual private networks) 


•
Wireless infrastructure (GSM and GPRS base stations, third generation or "3G" base stations, and radio network controllers) 
2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

•
Access networks (VoIP gateways that enable voice transmission over the Internet; DSLAMs that facilitate broadband data transmission over traditional voice networks; customer premises equipment (CPE); and integrated access devices, or IADs) 


•
Storage area networks (SANs) 
        We operate in two business segments: 

•
Communications and High-Performance Logic 


•
SRAMs and Other 
        The Communications and High-Performance Logic segment includes multi-port and FIFO products (semiconductors that integrate logic and memory technology), communications ASSPs (application-specific standard products) and high-performance logic and clock-management products. The SRAMs (static random access memories) and Other segment is comprised mainly of high-speed SRAMs. 

        During fiscal 2002, the Communications and High-Performance Logic and SRAMs and Other segments accounted for approximately 82% and 18%, respectively, of total IDT revenues of $379.8 million. These two segments represented 69% and 31%, respectively, of our total revenues of $991.8 million in fiscal 2001. 

Communications and High-Performance Logic Segment 

        This segment includes Communications Products, Communications ASSPs, and Logic and Clock Management Products. 

        Communications Products.    Our communications products in this segment are either proprietary or have limited alternative sources of supply. These include FIFOs and multi-ports that offer high-performance features for enterprise networks, wireless infrastructure applications and access networks. 

        FIFOs:    We develop products and technologies to help designers solve inter-chip communications problems such as rate matching, data buffering, bus matching and data priority managing. We provide an extensive product portfolio with more than 300 synchronous, asynchronous and bi-directional FIFO offerings. Our families of 9-bit, 18-bit, 36-bit and 72-bit-wide FIFOs are used in many networking and telecommunications system designs. We believe that our FIFOs provide the highest density (9 Mbit), highest performance (250 MHz) and broadest feature sets currently commercially available. 

        Multi-ports:    Our multi-port portfolio consists of the most comprehensive products available, including more than 150 types of asynchronous and synchronous dual-ports, FourPorts and bank-switchable dual-ports. Multi-ports are currently used primarily in SAN equipment such as RAID (redundant array of independent disks) controllers, and wireless communications and networking products, including wireless base stations. 

        Communications ASSPs.    Communications ASSPs include IP co-processors, integrated communications processors, telecom products, ATM (asynchronous transfer mode) switches and SARs, and high-speed PHYs. 

        IP Co-Processors:    We developed a family of Internet protocol (IP) co-processor products based on the integration of content addressable memory (CAM) and high-performance logic. Our portfolio of IP co-processors includes a custom-designed device for Cisco Systems, Inc.'s family of Catalyst switches, a pin- and software-compatible family of standard devices, and a roadmap to a family of devices that glue-lessly interface to network processors from network processor vendors Applied Micro Circuits Corporation and Intel Corporation (Intel). 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Integrated Communications Processors:    We offer integrated communications processors and development tools based on the MIPS instruction set architecture (ISA). We target integrated communications processors at the highest-growth communications market segments, such as residential gateways, small office/home office (SOHO) routers and Ethernet switches. We also continue to support existing customers with our existing standalone 32- and 64-bit microprocessors. 

        Telecom Products:    We offer a line of telecom products that includes switching products (time slot interchange, or TSI, switches), transport products (T1/E1/J1 octal framers and T1/E1 LIUs) and voice-processing products (quad and octal voice CODECs). Our telecom products are targeted at a variety of communications applications including voice-over-IP gateways, multi-service access switches, digital loop carrier (DLC) systems, central office switches and IADs. 

        ATM Switches and SARs:    Our SwitchStar switching chip set enables low-cost, high-performance cell-based switching. This two-chip set includes a switch controller and switch fabric memory, and along with a wide array of support devices, forms the core for a range of emerging access switch applications. We also provide segmentation and reassembly (SAR) controllers. While we continue to support existing customers with these products, this is not an area of future technology development for us. 

        PHYs:    We offer physical layer interface (PHY) devices for both ATM and Ethernet applications, focused on access network solutions at the 25-51 Mbps performance level. We continue to support existing customers with these products, but this is not an area of future technology development. 

        Logic and Clock Management Products.    Our product offerings fall into three groupings: high-performance interface logic, bus switch products, and clock management or timing products. We offer a broad range of high-performance, 3.3-volt CMOS logic interface products. We offer logic circuits that support bus and backplane interfaces, memory interfaces and other applications where high speed and low power are critical. Our FCT, LVC, and ALVC families of logic components help solve inter-board communication problems in high-performance communications and computing equipment. 

        We provide a range of high-performance bus switch products for solving circuit, bus and printed-circuit-board (PCB) interconnect problems for high-speed system designs. Our QuickSwitch® products come in a variety of configurations to meet customer needs for low cost and high performance. 

        We also supply high-performance clock management products to support a broad range of control functions within communications systems. Our portfolio includes TurboClock™ programmable skew PLLs, zero-delay buffers, clock fanout buffers and clock generators. 

SRAMs and Other Segment 

        We develop SRAM products and technologies that align with our communications product portfolio and extend our core competencies. We support both quad data rate (QDR™)(1) and zero bus turnaround (ZBT®) technologies as well as traditional asynchronous SRAM and PBSRAM technologies. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)
QDR RAMs comprise a family of quad rate RAMs developed by Cypress, IDT and Micron Technology. 
Customers 

        We market and sell our products on a worldwide basis primarily to OEMs in our two business segments. Products in the Communications and High-Performance Logic segment are sold primarily to communications customers. Although products in the SRAMs and Other segment are general purpose in nature, we also supply the majority of our products in this segment to our communications customers. Customers often purchase products from more than one of our product families. No one OEM direct customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 or 2000. When 

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


all channels are considered, one end customer, Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), accounts, in aggregate, for more than 10% of our revenues. Because of the limited data made available to us by our CEM customers, we are not able to precisely determine the percentage of our sales attributable to Cisco on an end-customer basis. However, based upon the best available information, we estimate that end-customer sales to Cisco represented between 13-15% of our fiscal 2002 revenues. 

Sales Channels 

        We use a variety of sales channels, including a direct sales force, distributors, CEMs, and independent sales representatives. A significant percentage of our sales, including sales to Cisco and other large OEM customers, are through CEMs and distributors. One distributor, Avnet, Inc., represented 16%, 14% and 19% of our revenues for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. One CEM, Solectron Corporation, represented 11% of our revenues in fiscal 2001. 

        Our direct sales organization consisted of approximately 210 personnel at March 31, 2002, in 17 domestic and 14 international sales offices. These personnel are primarily responsible for marketing and sales in their respective locations. We also utilize three primary distributors, Avnet, Inc., Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Insight Electronics, Inc., for sales in the United States. A significant percentage of our export sales is made through global and regional distributors in Europe, Asia Pacific and Japan. 

        During fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, sales outside of the Americas represented approximately 52%, 42% and 38%, respectively, of our total revenues. 

Manufacturing 

        We believe that our internal wafer fabrication capability facilitates the implementation of advanced process technologies, particularly processes that optimize the integration of logic and memory within single silicon chips. We operate sub-micron wafer fabrication facilities in Hillsboro, Ore. and Salinas, Calif. The Hillsboro facility first contributed to revenues in fiscal 1997. The 245,000 square foot facility, which produces most of the wafers fabricated for our SRAMs and Other segment and approximately one-third of the wafers fabricated for our Communications and High-Performance Logic segment, contains a 70,000 square foot, eight-inch wafer fabrication line. The Salinas facility, which has been in production since fiscal 1986, includes a 24,000 square foot, six-inch wafer fabrication line and produces two-thirds of the wafers fabricated for our Communications and High-Performance Logic segment. 

        We utilize proprietary CMOS silicon process technology permitting sub-micron geometries in our wafer fabrication facilities. The majority of our silicon production occurs using our 0.35-, 0.25- and 0.18-micron processes. We continue to develop advanced versions of our 0.18 micron process as well as processes at 0.15 microns and below. 

        In the third quarter of fiscal 2002, we announced plans to phase out production at our Salinas facility. The decision to consolidate production at our Hillsboro facility was consistent with the continuing evolution of our manufacturing technologies toward more advanced, smaller-geometry technologies, but it was accelerated by poor industry business conditions during fiscal 2002. Upon completion of our plans, we estimate that the Hillsboro facility will generate over 90% of our revenues. 

        We supplement our internal wafer fabrication capacity through relationships with subcontract wafer manufacturers, or foundries. We expect the percentage of our total wafer fabrication requirements provided by external foundries to increase in the future. 

        We also operate two component assembly and test facilities, a 145,000 square-foot facility in Penang, Malaysia and a 176,000 square-foot facility near Manila, the Philippines. Substantially all of our test operations and the majority of our assembly operations are performed at these two facilities. We also use subcontractors, principally in Korea, the Philippines and Malaysia, to perform certain assembly operations. Finally, in addition to this high-volume offshore assembly and test capability, we 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


have the capacity for low-volume assembly in our Santa Clara, Calif. facilities as well as limited test capabilities in Santa Clara. 

        Our assembly and test activities and international subcontracting arrangements are subject to a number of risks associated with foreign operations. In addition, we face other manufacturing risks, including those associated with the transfer of production from Salinas to Hillsboro (see "Factors Affecting Future Results"). 

Backlog 

        Our backlog (which we define as all confirmed, unshipped orders) as of March 31, 2002 was approximately $49.4 million, compared to $168.6 million as of April 1, 2001. We offer products with limited or no second sources, as well as industry-standard products. Sales are generally made pursuant to purchase orders, which are frequently revised by customers as their requirements change. We have also entered into master purchase agreements, which do not require minimum purchase quantities, with many of our OEM customers. We schedule product deliveries on receipt of purchase orders under the related OEM agreements. Generally, these purchase orders and OEM agreements, especially those for standard products, also allow customers to reschedule delivery dates and cancel purchase orders without significant penalties. In general, orders, especially for industry standard products, are often made with very short lead times and may be rescheduled, revised or canceled. In addition, distributor orders are subject to price adjustments both before and after shipment. For these reasons, we do not believe that backlog should be used as an indicator of future revenues. 

Research and Development 

        Our research and development efforts emphasize the development of both proprietary and enhanced-performance, industry standard products, and the development of our advanced CMOS processes. We believe that a continued high level of investment in research and development is necessary to maintain our competitive position. We operate research and development centers in Santa Clara, Calif.; Hillsboro, Ore.; Atlanta, Ga.; Dallas, Tex.; Warren, N.J., Shanghai, China and Sydney, Australia. Research and development expenses, as a percentage of revenues, were approximately 34%, 13% and 15% in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. 

        Our product development activities are focused on the design of new circuits that provide new features and enhanced performance primarily for growing communications markets applications. Additionally, we are developing advanced manufacturing process technologies, including 0.13-micron semiconductor fabrication techniques. These process technologies are designed to enable cost and performance advantages and to support higher production volumes of integrated circuits and the continued growth of our communications products. 

Competition 

        Intensely competitive, the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, cyclical market patterns, price erosion, evolving industry standards, occasional shortages of materials, intellectual property disputes, high capital equipment costs and uncertain availability of and control over manufacturing capacity. Many of our competitors have substantially greater technical, marketing, manufacturing and financial resources than we do. In addition, several foreign competitors receive assistance from their governments in the form of research and development loans and grants and reduced capital costs, which could give them a competitive advantage. We compete in different product areas, to varying degrees, on the basis of technical innovation and product performance, as well as product quality, availability and price. Products in the SRAMs and Other segment can generally be characterized as commodity-type items and tend to be most price sensitive. 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Our competitive strategy is to differentiate our products through high performance, innovative configurations, proprietary features and breadth of offerings. Price competition, introductions of new products by our competitors, delays in our own product introductions or other competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in the future. 

        While we have a majority share in the markets for FIFO and multi-port products, some of our products compete with similar products offered by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (Cypress). Our MIPS-based microprocessors compete with products offered by other vendors such as PMC-Sierra, Inc. (PMC), Toshiba Corporation and NEC Corporation, and with microprocessors based on other architectures, such as those offered by Intel and Motorola, Inc. Our competitors for logic sales include both U.S. manufacturers, such as Texas Instruments Incorporated and Pericom Semiconductor Corporation, and foreign companies. Certain of our network products compete with products offered by PMC. 

        Our competition for telecom sales includes such vendors as Infineon Technologies AG, Legerity Corporation, Agere Systems Inc., Zarlink Semiconductor Inc. and Dallas Semiconductor Corporation, a subsidiary of Maxim Integrated Products. We have market share leadership in the IP co-processors area, but our products do compete with offerings from Cypress and other companies. 

        In markets where we compete to sell industry standard SRAM components, market supply and pricing strategies of competitors significantly impact the price we receive for our products. Our competitors include U.S.-based companies such as Cypress, Micron Technology, Inc. and Integrated Silicon Solutions, Inc. International competitors include Samsung Electronics, and various other Taiwanese and Korean companies. 

Intellectual Property and Licensing 

        We believe that our intellectual property is a valuable corporate asset, and we continue to invest in intellectual property protection. We also intend to continue our efforts to increase the breadth of our patent portfolio. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us or that our efforts generally to protect our intellectual property rights will be successful. 

        In recent years, there has been a growing trend of companies resorting to litigation to protect their semiconductor technology from unauthorized use by others. In the past, we have been involved in patent litigation which adversely affected our operating results. Although we have obtained patent licenses from certain semiconductor manufacturers, we do not have licenses from a number of semiconductor manufacturers with broad patent portfolios. 

        We have been notified from time to time of claims that we may be infringing patents issued to others. Further, there can be no assurance that new claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights will not be aggressively pursued in the future. Such claims could include infringement of patents or patent applications, trade secret misappropriation, and copyright or trademark infringement. In addition, there is no assurance that licenses, to the extent required, will be available. Should licenses from any such claimant be unavailable, or not be available on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to discontinue our use of certain processes or the manufacture, use and sale of certain of our products, to incur significant litigation costs and damages, or to develop non-infringing technology. If we are unable to obtain any necessary licenses, pass any increased cost of patent licenses on to our customers or develop non-infringing technology, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we have received patent licenses from several companies that expire over time, and the failure to renew or renegotiate certain of these licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Environmental Regulation 

        Federal, State and local provisions, together with those of other countries, regulate the use and discharge of certain materials used in semiconductor manufacturing. Our facilities are designed to comply with applicable regulations and we believe that our operations conform to such regulations. However, there can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not require significant capital expenditures. Also, failure to comply with environmental regulations in the future could subject us to substantial liability or cause our manufacturing operations to be interrupted. 

Employees 

        As of March 31, 2002, we employed approximately 3,700 people worldwide, including 1,000 and 800 in Malaysia and the Philippines, respectively. We employed 5,000 people as of April 1, 2001. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly engineers, who are generally in great demand. We have implemented policies enabling our employees to share in our success, including stock option, stock purchase and profit sharing programs, and bonus plans for key contributors. We have never had a work stoppage. No employees are currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. 

        As discussed in Part II of this Form 10-K, we have decided to consolidate our wafer fabrication operations into our Hillsboro, Ore. facility. We plan to phase out production at our Salinas, Calif. facility during the first quarter of fiscal 2003 and expect our workforce to be reduced by approximately 260 Salinas-based positions. 

8
