
ITEM 1.    BUSINESS 


Industry 

        We are the world's largest semiconductor chip maker, supplying advanced technology solutions for the computing and communications industries. Our goal is to be the preeminent building block supplier to the worldwide Internet economy. Our products include chips, boards and other semiconductor components that are the building blocks integral to computers, servers, and networking and communications products. We offer products at various levels of integration, allowing our customers flexibility to create advanced computing and communications systems. 

        Our component-level products consist of integrated circuits used to process information. Integrated circuits are silicon chips, known as semiconductors, etched with interconnected electronic switches. Our developments in semiconductor design and manufacturing have made it possible to decrease the size of circuits etched into silicon, permitting more transistors to be used on each individual chip. This decrease in circuit size generally allows us to add additional features to our products and/or to make more chips from each silicon wafer, resulting in smaller and faster microprocessors and other semiconductor products that consume less power and cost less to manufacture. 

        We were incorporated in California in 1968 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1989. Our Internet address is www.intel.com. On our Investor Relations web site, located at www.intc.com, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings on our Investor Relations web site are available free of charge. 

Products 

        Our major products include microprocessors; chipsets; boards; flash memory; application processors used in cellular handsets and handheld computing devices; cellular baseband chipsets; networking and communications products such as Ethernet connectivity products, optical components and network processing components; and embedded control chips (microcontrollers). 

        Our major customers are: 

•
original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) who make computer systems, cellular handsets and handheld computing devices, telecommunications and networking communications equipment, and peripherals; 


•
PC and network communications products users (including individuals, large and small businesses, and service providers) who buy PC components and board-level products, as well as Intel's networking and communications products through distributor, reseller, retail, e-Business and OEM channels throughout the world; and 


•
other manufacturers, including makers of a wide range of industrial and communications equipment. 
        Focusing on our core competencies in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, as well as our expertise in digital computing and communications, we believe we are well positioned to drive the convergence of computing and communications through silicon integration. We focus on developing advanced technology solutions tailored to meet user requirements in specific settings, providing the features people want in their homes, at work and at play. We also provide key components for the networking and communications infrastructure needed to connect technology users. 

        Each of our operating segments uses its core competencies, as well as key silicon architectures, to provide building blocks for technology solutions. The Intel Architecture business provides the advanced technologies to support the desktop, mobile and enterprise platforms. The Wireless Communications and Computing Group focuses on component-level products and solutions for the wireless handheld communications market. Finally, 

1


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


the Intel Communications Group focuses on wired and wireless connectivity products, and provides key components for networking and communications infrastructure devices. 

Intel Architecture Business 

        The Intel Architecture business develops platform solutions around our microprocessors and chipsets for end products in the desktop, mobile and server market segments. 

•
Desktop and mobile platforms incorporate our microprocessor and chipset products in desktop computers, notebooks, entry-level servers and workstations, and Internet appliances. Our strategy for the desktop platform is to introduce ever-higher performance microprocessors and chipsets, tailored for the different market segments of the worldwide computing market, using a tiered branding approach. For the mobile platform, our strategy is to deliver products optimized for the four mobility vectors: performance, battery life, form factor and wireless capability. 


•
Enterprise platform products are targeted at mid-range to high-end servers and workstations, as well as high-performance enterprise-class servers. Servers are powerful systems, often with multiple microprocessors working together, that house large amounts of data, direct traffic, perform complex transactions and control central functions in local and wide area networks and on the Internet. Workstations offer higher performance than standard desktop PCs, especially in graphics processing and in the ability to perform several tasks at the same time. Our strategy for the enterprise platform is to provide high-performance processors and the best price for performance across the entire range of server and workstation market segments. 
        The Intel Architecture business's products include processors and board-level products based on our 32-bit Intel® architecture. This IA-32 architecture encompasses both the Intel® NetBurst™ microarchitecture (used in the Intel® Pentium® 4 and related microprocessors) and the previous P6 microarchitecture (used in Intel® Pentium® III and related microprocessors). We also offer the 64-bit Intel® Itanium® processor family for enterprise-class servers. In addition, we offer chipsets compatible with our microprocessor products. These chipsets improve ease of use for our OEM customers, provide new capabilities and enable overall system performance to scale as processor performance increases. 

        Net revenue for the Intel Architecture operating segment made up approximately 83% of our consolidated net revenue in 2002. 

Microprocessors 

        A microprocessor is the central processing unit (CPU) of a computer system. It processes system data and controls other devices in the system, acting as the "brains" of the computer. One indicator of microprocessor performance is its clock speed, the rate at which its internal logic operates, which is measured in units of hertz, or cycles processed per second. One megahertz (MHz) equals one million cycles processed per second, and one gigahertz (GHz) equals one billion cycles processed per second. Other factors affecting chip performance include the amount of memory storage, the speed of memory access, and the speed of communication between the CPU and the chipset. The memory stored on a chip is measured in bytes, with 1,024 bytes equaling a kilobyte (KB), 1.049 million bytes equaling a megabyte (MB) and 1.074 billion bytes equaling a gigabyte (GB). Cache is a memory subsystem in which frequently used data is duplicated for quick access. Second (L2) and third (L3) levels of cache, located directly on the microprocessor for faster access or between the CPU and main memory, can also be used to further increase overall system performance. 

        As of year-end 2002, we manufactured a majority of our microprocessors and chipsets using our 0.13-micron process technology. The width of individual transistors on a chip is measured in microns and nanometers: one micron equals one millionth of a meter; one nanometer is one thousandth of a micron, or one billionth of a meter. Decreasing the width of the transistors helps us make smaller and faster microprocessors at a lower cost. See the discussion of manufacturing process technologies under the heading "Manufacturing, Assembly and Test" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 

        In 2002, we announced a number of new microprocessor products tailored to meet performance, price and form factor needs for computing market segments ranging from consumer desktops to high-performance servers. 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Desktop Platform.    In 2002, the Intel Pentium 4 processor was our highest volume desktop processor. The Pentium 4 processor, based on the Intel NetBurst microarchitecture, is optimized to deliver high performance across a broad range of business and consumer applications, especially the latest technologies in web, interactive 3D, and streaming video and audio environments. These processors also enhance the user's experience in many applications, such as e-Learning, Internet browsing and computer gaming. 

        In January 2002, we introduced the first Pentium 4 processors running at up to 2.2 GHz built on our 0.13-micron manufacturing process technology. This technology allowed us to reduce the die size by 30% and double the size of the on-chip L2 cache memory, which enhances the processor's performance. Throughout the year, we introduced eight additional Pentium 4 processors running at speeds of up to 2.8 GHz. 

        In November 2002, we introduced the Intel Pentium 4 Processor with HT Technology. This chip is the first commercial desktop microprocessor to operate at 3 billion cycles per second, or 3 GHz. This chip is also our first desktop processor to incorporate Hyper-Threading Technology (HT Technology), which increases system-level performance by allowing a single processor to handle two streams of data instructions simultaneously. This capability provides system-level performance benefits in two ways: through multithreaded software (software designed to execute different parts of a program simultaneously) or through using software in a multitasking environment. To take advantage of the HT Technology capability, a computer system must have a processor that supports the technology, a chipset and BIOS (basic input/output system) that use the technology, and an operating system that includes optimizations for the technology. Performance will vary depending on the system hardware and software used. 

        In February 2002, we unveiled plans for our next-generation desktop microprocessor, code-named "Prescott," which is slated for introduction in 2003. Prescott will be manufactured on our 90-nanometer process technology and will include HT Technology. 

        In the value PC market segment, the Intel® Celeron® processor is designed to meet the core computing needs and affordability requirements of some value-conscious PC users. During 2002, we introduced seven new versions of the desktop Celeron processor running at speeds ranging from 1.3 GHz to 2.2 GHz. 

        In March 2002, we announced the shipment of our 100 millionth boxed microprocessor through our worldwide reseller sales channel. We launched our boxed processor program in 1994 to make our products and technical information available to smaller systems builders that cater to small business customers and emerging markets around the world. 

        Mobile Platform.    We design our mobile products to provide notebook and laptop PC users with the performance they need while providing wireless capability and meeting the power consumption and size constraints of mobile PCs. As with our desktop processors, we offer mobile processors at a variety of price/performance points, allowing our OEM customers to meet the demands of a wide range of notebook PC designs. These notebook designs include full size, thin and light, and ultra-portable. Within the ultra-portable design category, we provide specialized low-voltage processors, which consume as little as one watt of power on average, and Ultra Low Voltage processors, which consume as little as half a watt of power on average. Low-voltage processors are targeted for the mini-notebook market segment while Ultra Low Voltage processors are targeted for the sub-notebook and tablet market segments of mobile PCs weighing less than three pounds and measuring one inch in height. 

        During 2002, we introduced 33 new mobile processors, providing solutions across a wide range of market segments. In January 2002, we introduced seven new versions of the Mobile Intel® Pentium® III Processor-M and the Celeron processor based on 0.13-micron technology. With this introduction, we transitioned our entire mobile processor product line to the 0.13-micron process, delivering the benefits of smaller die size and higher performance to all of our mobile processors. 

        In March 2002, we introduced the first Pentium 4 microprocessors for mobile PCs: the Mobile Intel® Pentium® 4 Processor-M, which ran at speeds of up to 1.7 GHz. Aimed at both the full-size and thin-and-light notebook market segments, this processor is designed to enable both consumer and business users to take full advantage of processing-intensive applications such as audio and video encoding, digital imaging, speech recognition, 3D content creation, computer games, and multimedia and multitasking environments. In January 2003, the Mobile Intel Pentium 4 Processor-M was available at speeds of up to 2.4 GHz. 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Throughout 2002 and through January 2003, we introduced the Mobile Intel Pentium III Processor-M at speeds ranging from 1.26 GHz to 1.33 GHz, as well as low-voltage versions ranging from 866 MHz to 1 GHz, and Ultra Low Voltage versions ranging from 750 MHz to 933 MHz. 

        Throughout 2002 and through January 2003, we introduced mobile Celeron processors at speeds ranging from 1 GHz to 2 GHz, as well as low-voltage versions ranging from 733 MHz to 866 MHz, and Ultra Low Voltage mobile Celeron processors at speeds ranging from 650 MHz to 800 MHz, all aimed at the mobile value PC market segment. 

        In January 2003, we announced our intention to introduce products based on the Intel® Centrino™ mobile technology in March 2003. This is our first computing technology designed and optimized specifically to maximize the wireless computing experience for mobile PC users. Intel Centrino mobile technology is a combination of a new Intel® Pentium® M processor with the related Intel chipset and 802.11-based wireless networking technology. 

        Enterprise Platform.    The Enterprise Platforms Group provides microprocessors and chipsets for server and workstation systems. In 2002, we provided building blocks for solutions across a wide range of server market segments. In February 2002, we introduced the first Intel® Xeon™ processor for servers, based on the Intel NetBurst microarchitecture, featuring HT Technology. Server platforms using these Intel Xeon processors, with the supporting components and operating system necessary to use HT Technology, can significantly boost system performance for two-way systems compared to server platforms running on Pentium III processors. Aimed at two-way servers and workstations, these Intel Xeon processors were introduced at speeds of up to 2.2 GHz. We introduced several additional versions throughout 2002, leading up to the November introduction of Intel Xeon processors running at speeds of up to 2.8 GHz with 512 KB integrated cache. To make it easier for server and workstation makers to build systems based on the Intel Xeon processor, we also introduced server building block products, including new boards, chassis and RAID (redundant array of independent disk) controllers (which help to protect data by writing data across several disks). 

        In March 2002, we introduced the Intel Xeon processor MP at speeds of up to 1.6 GHz, bringing our Intel NetBurst microarchitecture to servers based on four or more processors. These processors are designed to boost performance of mid-tier and back-end servers by up to 30% or more compared to multiprocessor systems based on the Pentium III Xeon processor. 

        In November 2002, we introduced the Intel Xeon processor MP with an enhanced 2 MB integrated level three cache, running at speeds of up to 2 GHz. Designed for mid-tier and back-end servers based on four or more processors, this processor delivers up to 38% better performance for typical server applications, compared to previous generations of the Intel Xeon processor MP. 

        In July 2002, we began commercial shipments of our new Itanium® 2 processors, the second in the 64-bit Itanium processor family, a line of enterprise-class processors designed for the most data-intensive business-critical and technical computing applications. Systems based on the Itanium 2 processor deliver up to twice the performance of first-generation Itanium-based systems. 

        In March 2002, we introduced the industry's first dual-processor capabilities for "ultra-dense" blade servers. Ultra-dense blade servers are used in enterprise data centers and by Internet service providers to offer web serving, firewall protection and web caching. The Low Voltage Pentium® III processors used in dual-processing systems offer the small size, low power consumption and low heat that blade servers require. 

Chipsets 

        If the microprocessor is considered the "brains" of the PC, the chipset operates as the PC's "nervous system"—sending data from the processor to all the input, display and storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse, monitor, hard drive, and CD or DVD drive. Chipsets perform essential logic functions supporting the CPU, such as balancing the performance of the system and removing bottlenecks; they also extend the graphics, audio, video and other capabilities of many systems based on our processors. Our chipsets are compatible with one or more of a variety of industry-accepted bus specifications, such as the Peripheral Components Interconnect (PCI) local bus specification and the Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) specification. A bus is a circuit that carries data between parts of the system, for example, between the processor and main memory. Our customers demand memory architecture alternatives, and as a result, we currently offer chipsets supporting Double Data Rate (DDR) Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM), Synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) and Rambus* DRAM (RDRAM). 

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

        To help computer makers reduce the time-to-market for their products, we design, manufacture and sell chipsets for each computing market segment. In May 2002, we introduced the Intel® 845G, 845E and 845GL chipsets. These chipsets include integrated Hi-Speed Universal Serial Bus (USB) 2.0, which increases USB bandwidth up to 40 times compared to the previous USB 1.1 interface. The Intel 845G chipset is designed for PCs based on the Intel Pentium 4 microprocessor and incorporates both a new generation of integrated graphics capabilities and software drivers. The Intel 845E chipset works with specific graphics components to provide flexibility for makers of Pentium 4 microprocessor-based systems, while the Intel 845GL chipset is designed for PCs based on the Intel Celeron microprocessor. 

        In May 2002, we introduced the Intel® 850E chipset, complementing the Pentium 4 processor's 533-MHz system bus for higher performance desktop PCs. In October 2002, we introduced an enhanced Intel 850E chipset and three new chipsets—the Intel® 845GE, 845PE and 845GV chipsets—all supporting our HT Technology and utilizing high-speed system buses to maximize the performance of the Pentium 4 processor. 

        In March 2002, we introduced the Intel® 845MP chipset for the Mobile Pentium 4 Processor-M. The new chipset supports the enhanced Intel SpeedStep® technology (which improves power management in mobile computers), and supports external AGP 4X graphics, a 400-MHz processor system bus and DDR 266-MHz SDRAM. In addition, in January 2003, we introduced the Intel® 852GM integrated graphics chipset, also supporting enhanced Intel SpeedStep technology. The Intel 852GM chipset includes six integrated Hi-Speed USB 2.0 ports. 

        For workstation and server makers, in February 2002 we introduced the Intel® E7500 chipset, which is optimized for the Intel Xeon processor and supports DDR memory technology. The E7500 chipset enables twice the memory bandwidth of legacy SDRAM platforms. In November 2002, we introduced the Intel® E7501 chipset for two-way servers and the embedded computing market segment; the Intel® E7505 chipset for two-way workstations using Intel Xeon processors; and the Intel® E7205 chipset for single processor, entry-level workstations based on the Intel Pentium 4 processor. 

Board-Level Products 

        To help proliferate our microarchitectures through all of our computing market segments, we offer board-level products based on our microprocessors. While many of our OEM customers use our microprocessors as components in designing their own computer products, some also use board-level products that we design and build. OEMs may purchase products from us at this level of integration to reduce their time-to-market and to direct their investments to other areas of their product lines. We provide board-level products to give our OEM customers flexibility by enabling them to choose whether to buy at the component or board level. 

Sales and Gross Margin 

        For 2002, the majority of our consolidated net revenue and gross margin came from sales of the Intel Pentium 4 microprocessor and related microprocessors based on the Intel NetBurst microarchitecture, as well as related chipsets and boards. Sales of the Pentium III microprocessor and related microprocessors based on the P6 microarchitecture, as well as related products, made up a significant but steadily decreasing portion of our consolidated net revenue and gross margin. During 2001, sales of microprocessors based on the P6 microarchitecture and related board-level products and chipsets made up the majority of our consolidated net revenue and a substantial majority of our gross margin. For the same period, sales of products based on the Intel NetBurst microarchitecture and related products were a significant and rapidly increasing portion of our consolidated net revenue and gross margin. For 2000, sales of microprocessors based on the P6 microarchitecture and related products made up a substantial majority of our consolidated net revenue and gross margin. 

Wireless Communications and Computing Group 

        The Wireless Communications and Computing Group provides component-level building blocks for digital cellular communications and other applications requiring both low-power processing and high performance. Our strategy is to deliver complete solutions that enable quick deployment of applications and services for wireless Internet and handheld computing devices such as cell phones, personal digital assistants (PDAs) and smart displays. Our current products for the handheld platform include flash memory, processors based on the Intel® XScale™ microarchitecture, and cellular baseband chipsets. 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

        In the market segment for handheld computing devices, we sell flash memory, baseband chipsets and processors to OEMs of cellular handsets. For OEMs of PDAs, we offer flash memory and processors. Growth in this market segment is dependent on the increased use of handsets with more features and data-intensive applications. 

        At the heart of our wireless product strategy is the Intel® Personal Internet Client Architecture (Intel® PCA), an open architecture platform that describes the separation of communication and application building blocks for data-enabled cellular phones and portable handheld devices. By separating the communication and application elements within a device, Intel PCA allows for faster time-to-market for our customers and a standard, scalable platform for application development. 

        Net revenue for the Wireless Communications and Computing Group operating segment made up approximately 8% of our consolidated net revenue for 2002. 

Flash Memory 

        Flash memory is a specialized type of memory component used to store user data and program code; it retains this information even when the power is off. Although flash memory is currently used predominantly in mobile phones and PDAs, it is also found in common consumer products, including MP3 music players, handheld voice recorders and digital answering machines, as well as industrial products. In the first quarter of 2002, we began shipping the industry's first flash memory built on the 0.13-micron manufacturing process technology. This new flash chip, the 32-Mb Advanced+ Boot Block flash chip, is nearly 50% smaller and consumes less power than its 0.18-micron predecessor, making it ideal for cell phones and other electronics equipment for which small form factor and low power consumption are critical. 

        In April 2002, we introduced the Intel® Wireless Flash memory at 1.8 volts, running up to four times faster than previous flash solutions. These flash memory products increase the performance of data-intensive Internet phone applications such as browsing, streaming multimedia and text messaging. 

        Our Intel StrataFlash® memory technology provides a cost-effective, single-chip solution for code execution and data storage. In October 2002, we introduced the Intel StrataFlash® Wireless memory, the world's first 1.8-volt multi-level cell flash memory on industry-leading 0.13-micron process technology. The new product is the first to combine wireless performance features with Intel StrataFlash technology, doubling the number of bits in a single memory cell (multi-level cell) for higher performance and greater data storage for wireless devices. It is the first multi-level cell memory to run at 1.8 volts, the lowest in the industry. 

Processors for Handheld Computing Devices 

        The Intel XScale microarchitecture, offering low power consumption and fast clock speeds, enables a new generation of handheld and cellular devices, as well as wireless smart displays. Smart displays are wireless flat-panel displays that are used as monitors when docked to a base desktop PC, but when detached become a mobile monitor using 802.11 industry standard wireless technology. In February 2002, we introduced the Intel® PXA250 and PXA210 chips, designed to enable mobile phones and handheld computing devices to deliver music, video and computer games. In March 2002, we introduced extended temperature versions of the Intel PXA250 and Intel PXA210 application processors for use in telematics terminals in cars, to provide services such as roadside emergency assistance, navigation systems, integrated hands-free cellular phones, and multimedia entertainment and information systems. 

        In September 2002, we introduced Intel® Wireless MMX™ technology for the Intel PCA architecture, designed to bring desktop-like multimedia capabilities to wireless and handheld products based on Intel PCA. 

        In October 2002, we introduced "system-in-a-package" technology in the form of the Intel® PXA261 and PXA262 microprocessors, designed for data-enabled wireless handsets based on Intel PCA. These processors place an Intel XScale technology-based processor directly on top of Intel StrataFlash memory chips in a single package. 

Cellular Baseband Chipsets 

        We offer baseband chipsets for designing multi-mode, multi-band wireless handsets. Our chipsets support multiple wireless standards and deliver enhanced voice quality and high integration, while reducing power consumption and costs. We offer the Intel® D5205 TDMA Baseband Chipset, a compact two-chip solution, and 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

the Intel® 5206 TDMA Baseband Chip, a compact single-chip solution, both for dual-mode cellular and Personal Communication Services (PCS) band applications. We also offer the Intel® D5314 PDCharm2 Single-Chip Baseband, a compact single-chip solution for dual rate (full and half rate) baseband processing for personal digital cellular handheld phones. 

        We are working toward the convergence of computing and communications in this market segment by developing technology for mobile handheld clients that combines baseband communications features with memory and applications processing functionality. In February 2003, we announced our first "wireless-Internet-on-a-chip" cellular processor, which will integrate these three functions. 

Intel Communications Group 

        The Intel Communications Group provides silicon and integrated networking and communications building blocks based on three focus areas that we believe to be defining trends for the Internet: Ethernet connectivity products, optical components and network processing components that provide programmable building blocks for modular networking infrastructure. We also offer embedded control chips for use in imaging products, automotive systems and other applications. 

        Net revenue for the Intel Communications Group operating segment made up approximately 8% of our consolidated net revenue for 2002. 

Ethernet Connectivity Products 

        Ethernet is an industry-standard technology used to translate and transmit data in packets across networks. As Ethernet expands from the traditional local area network (LAN) environment into the wireless LAN (WLAN) market segment, the metropolitan area network (MAN) and the networked storage market segment, we are expanding our Ethernet product portfolio to address these emerging market segments. In storage, we are developing products that enable storage resources to be added to any location on an Ethernet network. For the MAN market segment, we offer Ethernet products at multiple levels of integration to provide a low-cost solution with increased speed and signal transmission distance (commonly referred to as "reach"). 

        Our LAN strategy is to maintain leadership in client Ethernet connections as the market segment transitions from Fast Ethernet to Gigabit Ethernet. Gigabit Ethernet networks allow the transmission of one billion individual bits of information per second. By contrast, Fast Ethernet networks transmit 100 million bits of information per second (Mbps, or megabits per second). 

        In February 2002, we introduced three new single-chip Gigabit Ethernet products for desktop PCs, workstations and servers that are significantly smaller and use less power than previous products. The products include a new single-port, single-chip Gigabit Ethernet controller for workstations and a dual-port, single-chip controller, enabling server manufacturers to add two Gigabit Ethernet network connections in the same amount of space previously required for a single connection. In addition, we introduced a new Gigabit Ethernet adapter, the Intel® PRO/1000 T IP Storage Adapter, designed to make networked storage easier and less expensive by enabling block storage data to travel over copper-based Ethernet networks. 

        Our strategy in wireless Ethernet is to significantly accelerate deployment of WLAN capability by developing WLAN products and fostering the adoption of integrated WLAN into the mobile and notebook computer segments. The Intel® PRO/Wireless 5000 LAN Dual Band Access Point allows for simultaneous connections of 802.11b and 802.11a networks to the same device. The 802.11 specification is a networking standard set by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE). Compared to 802.11b, products based on the 802.11a specification can provide a faster exchange of data between computing devices and networks. 

Optical Components 

        Opto-electronic components are electrical components used in optical networking equipment, and Synchronous Optical Network (SONET), Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH) and Ethernet are the primary optical data transport standards in the telecommunications industry. For the MAN and wide area network (WAN) market segments, we provide a variety of multi-protocol and multi-rate components that support SONET/SDH and Ethernet standards. 

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

        In March 2002, we introduced five new optical networking components that give telecommunications equipment manufacturers increased flexibility when building 10-Gigabit-per-second optical networking systems. These products span the range of optical networking applications, from enterprise to metro and long-haul market segments. 

        Also in March 2002, we announced that we are expanding our optical networking business to include photonics design and manufacturing. Photonics is a specialized field that involves manipulating light pulses over optical fiber for the transmission and processing of information over networks. We also introduced the single-chip Intel® 82597EX 10 Gigabit Ethernet controller running at 10 Gigabits per second. This controller brings high-performance 10-Gigabit Ethernet connections to the enterprise market segment. 

        In August 2002, we introduced optical transceiver products designed to accelerate 10-Gigabit communications in enterprise data centers. In November 2002, we expanded this product line with a suite of five optical components aimed at meeting the reduced size, cost and power consumption requirements for 10-Gigabit optical transceivers used in enterprise applications. 

Network Processing Components 

        The Intel® Internet Exchange Architecture (Intel® IXA) provides a flexible platform for the networking and communications industry to build faster, more intelligent networks using reprogrammable silicon. Our network processor products consist of advanced, programmable devices that are used in networking equipment to rapidly manage and direct data moving across the Internet and corporate networks. Our strategy in network processing is to develop an industry-leading product roadmap, invest in modular communications standards and enable activities to accelerate silicon deployment. 

        In February 2002, we unveiled a family of network processors based on the Intel XScale core microarchitecture. These network processors are designed for applications extending from the home and office to service providers' central switching offices and include the Intel® IXP2800 network processor for network core applications, such as ultra-high-speed switch/routers; the Intel® IXP2400 network processor for multi-service switches and similar equipment at the network edge; and the Intel® IXP425 network processor for equipment that brings digital subscriber line (DSL) service, cable Internet service and wireless networking to homes and offices. In February 2003, we introduced the Intel® IXP 420, IXP 421 and IXP 422 network processors for equipment aimed at home, small office/home office (SOHO) and small- to medium-enterprise market segments. 

        In September 2002, we expanded our communications processing product portfolio with two new processors for communications equipment manufacturers: the Intel® IXC1100 control-plane processor, our first control-plane processor based on the Intel XScale technology, and the low-voltage Intel Xeon applications and services processor. These chips combine integrated technologies with low power consumption for communications and wireless infrastructure equipment. 

        In October 2002, we introduced the Intel® IXP2850 network processor, which builds on the Intel IXP2800 network processor architecture to provide added encryption and data integrity standards, allowing for more secure content processing for applications such as virtual private networks and web services. 

Embedded Control Chips 

        Our embedded control chips are used in a broad range of applications, including imaging products, storage media, point-of-sale systems, industrial automation equipment and automotive systems. Product families include the Intel 186, Intel386™, Intel486™, Intel® Pentium® II, and Intel® Pentium® III processors; the Intel® i960® processor; and 8-bit and 16-bit microcontrollers. In June 2002, Intel added the Mobile Intel Pentium 4 Processor-M and the Intel Pentium 4 processor to its line-up of embedded processors, for use in high-performance embedded computing solutions such as virtual private networks, firewalls, point-of-sale terminals and kiosk applications. 

Manufacturing, Assembly and Test 

        As of year-end 2002, more than 70% of our wafer manufacturing, including microprocessor, flash memory and networking silicon fabrication, was conducted within the United States at our facilities in Arizona, Oregon, New Mexico, Massachusetts, Colorado and California. Outside the United States, almost 30% of our total wafer fabrication, primarily microprocessor and chipset fabrication, was conducted at our facilities in Israel and Ireland. 

8


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

        As of year-end 2002, the majority of our microprocessors and chipsets was manufactured using our 0.13-micron process technology, on 200mm (8-inch) wafers, in Oregon, Arizona, Massachusetts and California. The latest Pentium 4 processors are manufactured using our 0.13-micron process technology. The 0.13-micron process technology is our most advanced high-volume production process featuring structures smaller than 1/1000th the thickness of a human hair (0.18 micron is 1/500th the thickness of a human hair). We also continue to manufacture microprocessors and chipsets using our 0.18-micron process technology in Israel, Ireland, Arizona and New Mexico. 

        In 2002, we brought on line our second 300mm (12-inch) wafer fabrication facility in New Mexico. Both our New Mexico and Oregon 300mm facilities currently manufacture processors based on 0.13-micron process technology. In the third quarter of 2002, we announced plans to begin manufacturing processors on 300mm wafers using our next-generation 90-nanometer (a nanometer is one-billionth of a meter) process technology in the second half of 2003. We expect to have three 300mm wafer facilities using the 90-nanometer process by the end of 2004, with the third facility under construction in Ireland. We believe we are the first company to complete development of 90-nanometer process technology and to demonstrate manufacturing readiness with complex integrated circuits. We also announced plans for two additional 300mm facilities in Oregon and Arizona that will start production after 2004. 

        During 2002, we ramped our flash memory production using 0.13-micron process technology in New Mexico and California. In the first half of 2003, we intend to ramp flash memory production using 0.13-micron process technology in Ireland. We also manufacture flash memory in Colorado and New Mexico using our 0.18-micron technology. 

        We perform a substantial majority of our components assembly and test, including assembly and test for microprocessors, at facilities in Malaysia, the Philippines and Costa Rica. We also perform components assembly and test for chipsets and flash memory at a facility in China. In the third quarter of 2002, we announced an additional investment in our facilities in China with plans to add microprocessor assembly and test capabilities in 2003. We plan to continue to invest in new assembly and test technologies and facilities to keep pace with our microprocessor, chipset and flash technology improvements. 

        We also manufacture microprocessor- and networking-related board-level products in Malaysia and California. During the first half of 2002, for cost-competitive reasons, we phased out our systems manufacturing operations in Washington that produced microprocessor- and networking-related system-level products. 

        To augment capacity in the United States as well as internationally, we use subcontractors to perform assembly of certain products, primarily flash memory, chipsets, and networking and communications products, as well as third-party manufacturing services (foundries) to manufacture wafers for certain components, including networking and communications products. We also use subcontractors to manufacture some board-level products and systems, and we purchase certain communications networking products from external vendors, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region. 

        We have thousands of suppliers, including subcontractors, providing our various materials and service needs. We seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of these materials and resources, but on limited occasions we may rely on a single or limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country. In those cases, we develop and implement plans and actions to minimize the exposure that would result from a disruption at that supplier. We also typically have multiple factories at multiple sites around the world producing our products. However, some products are produced in only one factory, and again we seek, through other actions and plans, to minimize the exposure that would result from a disruption at that factory. 

        Manufacturing of integrated circuits is a complex process. Normal manufacturing risks include errors and interruptions in the production process, defects in raw materials and disruptions at suppliers, as well as other risks, all of which can affect yields. A substantial decrease in yields would result in higher manufacturing costs and the possibility of not being able to produce sufficient volume to meet specific product demand. 

        We operate globally—with sales offices; research and development; and manufacturing, assembly and test in many countries—and so we are subject to risks and factors associated with doing business outside the United States. Global operations involve inherent risks that include currency controls and fluctuations; tariff, import and other related restrictions and regulations. If terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability occurs in the United States, Israel or other locations, such events may disrupt manufacturing, assembly and test, logistics, security and communications, and could also result in reduced demand for Intel's products. We could also be affected if labor issues disrupt our transportation arrangements or those of our 

9


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


customers or suppliers. On a worldwide basis, we regularly review our key infrastructure, systems, services and suppliers both internally and externally, to seek to identify significant vulnerabilities as well as areas of potential business impact if a disruptive event were to occur. Once identified, we assess the risks, and as we consider it to be appropriate, we initiate actions intended to minimize the risks and their potential impact. However, there can be no assurance that we have identified all significant risks or that we can mitigate all identified risks with reasonable effort. 

        We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. The types and amounts of insurance obtained vary from time to time depending upon availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The deletion of insurance coverage for terrorist acts following the attacks on the World Trade Center in New York City served as the impetus for the recently enacted Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 requiring insurers to offer terrorism coverage within the United States. As with any new legislation, there are limitations and restrictions that are not yet fully understood, and pricing of such coverage may be prohibitive. We will continue to evaluate the purchase of terrorism coverage should pricing and terms become more favorable. 

        For information regarding environmental proceedings related to certain facilities, see the information under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. 

Employees 

        In July 2002, we announced that we expected to reduce our workforce by approximately 4,000 employees over the remainder of 2002, primarily through attrition, voluntary separation programs and some targeted business disinvestments. We had exceeded this goal by the end of 2002. As of December 28, 2002, we employed approximately 78,700 people worldwide, with a little over 35% of these employees located outside the United States. 

Sales 

        Most of our products are sold or licensed through sales offices located near major concentrations of users, primarily throughout the Americas, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Japan. Sales agreements often contain standard terms and conditions covering matters such as pricing, payment terms, and warranties as well as indemnities for issues specific to our products, such as patent and copyright indemnities. From time to time we may enter into additional agreements with customers covering, for example, new product development and marketing, private-label branding and other matters. Sales of particular products are generally done with purchase orders issued under the sales agreements. Most of Intel's sales are done using electronic and web-based processes that allow the customer to review inventory availability and to track the progress of specific goods under order. Pricing on particular products may vary based on volumes ordered and other factors. Purchases by customers often allow them to participate in cooperative advertising and marketing programs such as the Intel Inside® program. 

        We also use industrial and retail distributors and sales representatives to distribute our products worldwide. Typically, distributors handle a wide variety of products, including those that compete with our products, and fill orders for many customers. Most of our sales to distributors are made under agreements allowing for price protection on unsold merchandise and right of return on stipulated quantities of unsold merchandise. Sales representatives generally do not offer directly competitive products but may carry complementary items manufactured by others. Representatives do not maintain a product inventory; instead, their customers place orders directly with us or through distributors. 

        We have a worldwide reseller sales channel with thousands of indirect customers who are systems builders. These systems builders purchase Intel microprocessors and other products from distributors and receive various levels of technical and marketing services and support directly from Intel. We have a "boxed processor program" that allows distributors to sell Intel microprocessors in small quantities to these systems builder customers; boxed processors are also made available in direct retail outlets. Since 1994, our worldwide reseller sales channel has grown substantially and has become an increasingly important part of our business. Through our various programs supporting the reseller sales channel, we seek to maintain positive customer relations with these numerous systems builders around the world. 

10


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Our products are typically shipped under terms that transfer title to the customer, even in arrangements where the customer may have a later right to return or to exchange the products and the recognition of revenue on the sale is deferred. The sales agreements typically provide that payment is due at a later date, such as 30 days after shipment or delivery. Our credit department sets accounts receivable and shipping limits for individual customers, for the purpose of controlling credit risk to Intel regarding outstanding account balances. We assess credit risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis, and from this analysis, we establish credit limits and determine whether we will seek to use one or more credit support devices, such as retention of a security interest in the product or the receipt of some form of third-party guarantee or other credit enhancement. We may seek credit enhancement devices such as stand-by letters of credit or credit insurance where the credit lines required to support the level of business with specific customers exceed what we consider to be normally acceptable risk levels. Credit losses may still be incurred due to bankruptcy, fraud or other failure of the customer to pay. See "Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts" on page 83 in this Form 10-K for information on our allowance for doubtful receivables. 

        In 2002, we conducted business with more than 2,000 customers worldwide. Dell Computer Corporation contributed approximately 16% to our total sales. Hewlett-Packard Company contributed approximately 15% to our total sales (including sales to Compaq Computer Corporation before the merger with Hewlett-Packard). A substantial majority of the sales to these customers consisted of Intel Architecture business products. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Sales to our three largest customers accounted for approximately 38% of total revenue. For the information regarding revenue and operating profit by reportable segments and revenue from unaffiliated customers by geographic region/country, see "Note 21: Operating Segment and Geographic Information" in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 

Backlog 

        Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of standard products. We have some agreements that give a customer the right to purchase a specific number of products during a specified time period. Although not generally obligating the customer to purchase any particular number of such products, some of these agreements do contain billback clauses. Under these clauses, customers who do not purchase the full volume agreed to are liable for billback on previous shipments up to the price appropriate for the quantity actually purchased. As a matter of industry practice, billback clauses are difficult to enforce. The quantity actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes in the customer's needs. In light of industry practice and experience, we do not believe that such agreements are meaningful for determining backlog amounts. We believe that only a small portion of our order backlog is noncancellable and that the dollar amount associated with the noncancellable portion is not material. Therefore, we do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is indicative of future results. 

Competition 

        Our goal is to be the preeminent building block supplier to the worldwide Internet economy. Focusing on our core competencies in silicon design and manufacture of integrated circuits as well as our expertise in digital computing and communications, we believe we are well positioned to drive the convergence of computing and communications through silicon integration. In each of our market segments, our products compete, to various degrees, on the basis of functionality, performance, quality, price and availability. Our ability to compete also depends upon our ability to provide worldwide support for our customers. Rapid advances characterize the semiconductor industry, and our ability to continue to compete depends on our ability to improve our products and processes faster than our competitors, anticipate changing customer requirements, and develop and launch new products to meet them, and at the same time reduce our costs. Our competitors also routinely add features to their products, seek to increase their products' performance and/or sell their products at lower prices over time. We cannot predict whether our products will continue to compete successfully with existing rival architectures and/or whether new architectures will establish or gain market acceptance or increase competition with our products. 

        In the semiconductor industry, prices decline rapidly as unit volumes grow, further competition develops and production experience is accumulated. The life cycle of our products is very short, often less than a year. Many companies compete with us in the various computing, networking and communications market segments, and are engaged in the same basic fields of activity, including research and development. Worldwide, these 

11


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


competitors range in size from large multinational companies with multiple product lines to smaller companies that compete in specialized market segments. In some cases our competitors are also customers and/or suppliers. Some competitors have integrated operations, including their own manufacturing facilities, while other competitors perform certain functions themselves and outsource design, manufacturing and/or other functions. Competitors who outsource their manufacturing can significantly reduce their capital expenditures. 

        Most of our products, including all of our Intel architecture microprocessors, are built in our own manufacturing facilities, although a substantial portion of Intel Communications Group's manufacturing is performed by third-party manufacturers. We believe that our network of manufacturing facilities and assembly/test facilities is a competitive advantage. This network allows us more direct control of our processes, quality control, product cost, volume and timing of production and other factors. These types of facilities are very expensive, and many of our competitors do not own such facilities because they cannot afford to do so or because their business models involve the use of third-party facilities for manufacturing and assembly/test. These "fabless semiconductor companies" include, e.g., Broadcom Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and VIA Technologies, Inc. Some of our competitors own portions of such facilities through investment or joint-venture arrangements with other companies. There is a group of third-party manufacturing and assembly/test companies (foundries) that offer their services to companies without owned facilities or companies needing additional capacity. These foundries may also offer intellectual property, design services, and other goods and services to our competitors. 

        Many of our competitors are licensed to use our patents, and we are licensed to use their patents, through various cross-licensing agreements. Some competitors have broad licenses with us, and under current case law, such licenses permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others. If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing competing products. 

        We plan to continue to cultivate new businesses and work with other hardware and software companies and industry groups to expand product offerings and Internet capabilities, including the infrastructure for wireless access, and develop compelling software applications and operating systems designed to take advantage of our higher performance microprocessors and chipsets as well as our next-generation semiconductor components. We frequently participate in industry initiatives designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and other aspects of technologies that could be adopted as standards by standard-setting organizations. Our participation does not ensure that any standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will be consistent with our product planning. Participation in such initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt the standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt standards or specifications proposed by Intel. Any Intel patents implicated by our participation in such initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against others who might be infringing those patents. 

        When we believe it is appropriate, we will take various steps, including introducing new products and discontinuing older products, reducing prices, and offering rebates and other incentives in order to increase acceptance of our latest products and to be competitive within each relevant market segment. From time to time, we may terminate product development before completion or decide not to manufacture and sell a developed product, so we do not expect that all of our product development projects will result in products that ultimately are released for sale. For example, we may decide that the product might not be sufficiently competitive in the relevant market segment, or, for technological or marketing reasons, we may decide to offer a different product instead. Our products often incorporate features that will only increase the product's performance or otherwise be useful to the end user if other companies have developed operating systems, other software applications or other hardware that take advantage of these features. 

Intel Architecture Business 

        The Intel Architecture business supports the desktop and mobile platforms with the IA-32 architecture. The Intel Architecture business also supports the enterprise platform with the Intel Xeon processor family for workstations and mid-range to high-end servers, and the Intel Itanium processor family for enterprise-class servers. For desktop platforms, our strategy is to introduce ever-higher performance microprocessors and chipsets, developed for different market segments of the worldwide computing market, using a tiered branding approach. For the mobile platform, our strategy is to deliver products optimized for the four mobility vectors: performance, battery life, form factor and wireless capability. For the enterprise platform, our strategy is to provide high-performance processors and the best price for performance across the entire range of server and workstation market segments. 

12


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

        Our financial results are substantially dependent on microprocessor sales by the Intel Architecture operating segment. Many of our competitors, including Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), our primary microprocessor competitor, market software-compatible products intended to compete with Intel architecture-based processors. We also face significant competition from companies offering rival microprocessor designs, such as International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) and Motorola, Inc., which supply microprocessors to Apple Computer, Inc. Competitive product offerings continue to increase in the market segments where we have product offerings. Our desktop processors compete with products offered by AMD, IBM, Motorola and VIA, among others. Our mobile microprocessor products compete with products offered by AMD, IBM, Motorola, Transmeta Corporation and VIA, among others. Our server processors compete with software-compatible products offered by AMD and with established products based on rival architectures, including those offered by Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM and Sun Microsystems, Inc. Our chipsets compete in the various market segments against various types of chipsets that either support our microprocessor products or rival microprocessor products. Competing chipsets are produced by companies such as ATI Technologies, Inc., Broadcom Corporation, Silicon Integrated Systems Corporation (SIS) and VIA. We also compete with other companies offering special-purpose products used in the desktop, mobile and server segments, such as NVIDIA Corporation, which offers graphics components. 

Wireless Communications and Computing Group 

        Within the Wireless Communications and Computing Group, our strategy is to deliver complete solutions that enable quick deployment of applications and services for wireless Internet and personal information devices. For the handheld platform, we currently offer Intel Flash memory, processors based on the Intel XScale microarchitecture, and cellular baseband chipsets. In our various market segments, our products currently compete with the products of other companies, such as AMD, QUALCOMM, Samsung Semiconductor Inc., ST Microelectronics Group and Texas Instruments Incorporated. 

Intel Communications Group 

        Within the Intel Communications Group, our strategy is to be the leading supplier of silicon and integrated networking and communications building blocks for OEMs. We are developing products that focus on technologies that we believe are essential to build out the Internet: Ethernet connectivity products, including products designed for wireless applications, optical products and network processing components. In these areas, we face competition from both established and emerging companies. Our products currently compete against offerings from companies such as Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Broadcom, IBM, Intersil Corporation, Marvell Technology Co. Ltd. and PMC-Sierra, Inc. Many of our competitors use acquisitions to obtain alternative technologies and products in an effort to achieve leading-edge market positions. The Intel Communications Group market segments have been substantially adversely affected by the economic downturn of the past two years, resulting in no growth or reduced total available market in those segments. These market conditions have resulted in increased competition for the remaining available business opportunities. We cannot predict whether our networking and communications products will continue to compete successfully with those of our existing competitors or new market entrants. 

Research and Development 

        We have maintained our competitive position to a large extent because of our emphasis on research and development, and our goal is to be one generation ahead of the competition in our product offerings and process technologies. Investing in research and development has enabled us to deliver leading-edge technology and has permitted our customers to commit to the use of these new products in the development of their own products. Our research and development activities are directed toward developing new products; hardware technologies; and manufacturing, packaging and testing processes; as well as improving existing products and lowering costs. In addition, we plan to continue to invest in the development of products and process technologies that combine, through silicon integration or complementary product offerings, our strengths in computing and communications. 

        We perform a substantial majority of the design and development of components and other products in the United States at our facilities in California, Oregon, Arizona, Washington and Massachusetts. Outside the United States, we have been increasing our product development facilities at various locations, including Israel, Malaysia, India, China and Russia. We also maintain research and development facilities in Oregon and 

13


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


California that are focused on improving manufacturing processes, as well as facilities in Arizona and Malaysia that are dedicated to improvements in assembly and test processes. 

        We believe that a key trend in the advancement of technology will be the convergence of computing and communications. Users of mobile devices in particular will benefit from the increased functionality of their portable computing devices as computing and communications converge. Throughout 2002, we had key development initiatives around this convergence theme. In March 2003, we plan to introduce products based on the Intel Centrino mobile technology, our first computing technology designed and optimized specifically to maximize the wireless computing experience for mobile PC users. Intel Centrino mobile technology is a combination of a new Intel Pentium M processor with the related Intel chipset and 802.11-based wireless networking technology, designed to enable extended battery life, reliable wireless connectivity, thin and light form factors, and optimized processor performance. In addition, in February 2003 we announced our first "wireless-Internet-on-a-chip" cellular processor for mobile handheld clients, combining baseband communications features with memory and applications processing functionality. 

        As the technology industry develops operating systems and software with capabilities to address growing data traffic management, storage, computing and communications needs, we believe that there will be increased demand for higher performance enterprise platform products. In line with this belief, we continued our development initiatives around enterprise platform products. As a result, in February 2002, we were able to introduce the first Intel Xeon processor, based on the Intel NetBurst microarchitecture, featuring Hyper-Threading Technology (HT Technology). Server platforms running on these Intel Xeon processors, with the supporting components and operating system necessary to use HT Technology, significantly boost system performance for two-way systems compared to server platforms running on our previous Pentium III processors. Shipping of the Intel Itanium 2 processor during third quarter of 2002 was also a significant achievement. The Intel Itanium 2 processor is the second member of our Itanium processor family, designed for high-end enterprise and high-performance applications, which need the capability of handling high transaction volumes, complex transactions and other data-intensive computing. 

        We also announced technology advancements that are integrated into Intel's new 90-nanometer manufacturing process technology. We combined the use of strained silicon and copper interconnects that have integrated advanced materials (carbon-doped oxide dielectric material) into our 90-nanometer process. By using strained silicon, electrical current is able to flow more smoothly, increasing the speed of transistors. The copper interconnects integrated with these advanced materials allow for increased signal speed and reduced power consumption. We expect to begin manufacturing processors built using this combined technology in 2003. 

        Separately, we also announced plans to incorporate communications capabilities in the 90-nanometer manufacturing process. These capabilities include the use of high-speed transistors and "mixed-signal" circuitry, aimed at producing faster, more integrated, less costly communications chips. These integrated silicon technologies will help drive the convergence of computing and communications. 

        We also have research and development initiatives in other wireless, networking and communications product areas. For wireless devices, we have development projects surrounding the Intel PCA architecture. The Intel PCA architecture is our development blueprint for designing wireless handheld communications devices that combine voice communications and Internet access capabilities. Development initiatives around Intel PCA include processor design based on the Intel XScale technology, digital signal processing core development, improved packaging formats and other communications intellectual property. For networking and communications products, we have focused our development efforts on wireless technologies based on the 802.11 industry standards, higher performance Ethernet connectivity products, network processors based on the Intel XScale technology, modular communications building blocks that reduce development costs and time for network systems developers, and standardized optical components and modules for reduced power and cost. 

        Our research and development on both processes and products may involve current-generation activities as well as development of process and product roadmaps extending into the future for successive generations. Our manufacturing process work, particularly for future process technology generations, typically involves substantial experimentation, invention and evaluation relating to numerous aspects of manufacturing capability. To varying degrees, these efforts rely on the work of third parties such as university researchers and manufacturers of semiconductor factory equipment. Our process development work may involve alternative and competing technologies, and, for technological or other business reasons, not all of our efforts will result in technology that we deploy in our manufacturing operations. 

14


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Products under development involve various types of input/output capabilities and instruction-set architectures. From time to time, we may terminate product development before completion or decide not to manufacture and sell a developed product, so we do not expect that all of our product development projects will result in products that are ultimately released for sale. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to move forward with a particular product. For example, we may decide that the product might not be sufficiently competitive in the relevant market, or, for technological or marketing reasons, we may decide to offer a different product instead. Our products often incorporate features that will only increase the product's performance or be otherwise useful to the end user if other companies have developed operating systems, other software applications or other hardware that take advantage of these features. We continue to work with other hardware and software companies and industry groups to encourage the development of product offerings designed to take advantage of our products' features. 

        Despite weak economic conditions, we have continued our commitment to invest in leading-edge technology development. Our expenditures for research and development were $4,034 million in fiscal 2002, $3,796 million in fiscal 2001 and $3,897 million in fiscal 2000. In addition, we incurred charges for purchased in-process research and development related to acquisitions of $20 million for fiscal 2002, $198 million for fiscal 2001 and $109 million for fiscal 2000. Despite an overall decrease in our total number of employees, we held the number of our employees engaged in research and development flat at approximately 21,000 at December 2002 compared to December 2001. 

Acquisitions and Strategic Investments 

        The level of new acquisition and strategic investment activity for 2002 was substantially lower compared to prior years. During 2002, we acquired three development-stage operations in exchange for total consideration of approximately $57 million, augmenting our capabilities in strategic areas within the Intel Communications Group and certain other businesses. 

        Under our Intel Capital program, we make equity investments in other companies to further our strategic objectives and to support our key business initiatives for the desktop, mobile and enterprise platforms, as well as networking and communications. In 2002, the Intel Capital program also assumed responsibility for overseeing the development and growth of new businesses internally. The Intel Capital program focuses on investing in companies and initiatives to stimulate growth in computing, communications and the Internet, and to grow the information infrastructure, in order to create new business opportunities and expand markets for our products. This strategic investment program helps advance our overall mission to be the preeminent supplier of building blocks to the worldwide Internet economy. The program seeks to invest in companies and businesses that can succeed and have an impact on their market segment. When the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment or wind down the business operation. 

Intellectual Property and Licensing 

        Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products and services include patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and mask-work rights. We maintain an active program to protect our investment in technology by enforcing our intellectual property rights. We do not intend to license our intellectual property rights broadly unless we can obtain adequate consideration. See also the information under the heading "Competition" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 

        We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the United States and abroad. While our patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any one patent. We and other companies in the computing, telecommunications and related high-technology fields typically apply for and receive, in the aggregate, thousands of patents annually in the United States and other countries. In addition, because of the fast pace of innovation and product development, our products are often obsolete before the patents related to them expire. As a result, we believe that the duration of the applicable patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. 

        The software embedded in our component and system-level products is entitled to copyright protection. Under some circumstances, we may require our customers to obtain a software license before we provide them with that software. 

15


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        To distinguish genuine Intel products from our competitors' products, we have obtained certain trademarks and trade names for our products, and we maintain cooperative advertising programs with OEMs to promote our brands and identify products containing genuine Intel components. 

        We also protect certain details about our processes, products and strategies as trade secrets, keeping confidential the information that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. We have ongoing programs designed to maintain the confidentiality of such information. 

        Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses and other intellectual property is subject to general litigation risks. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us. Like many companies in the semiconductor and other high-technology industries, we receive claims that we may be infringing others' intellectual property rights. When we receive such claims, we refer them to our counsel, and current claims are in various stages of evaluation and negotiation. If we determine that it is necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for certain intellectual property rights. However, we can give no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses from any claimant, or that we can accept the terms of any offered licenses. Further, we are not able to resolve every dispute without litigation, which is typically time-consuming and expensive. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay material amounts of damages. See also the information under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. 

Compliance with Environmental Regulations 

        To our present knowledge, compliance with federal, state and local provisions enacted or adopted for protection of the environment has had no material effect upon our operations. We also refer to the information under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. 

16


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Executive Officers 

        The following sets forth certain information with regard to executive officers of Intel (ages are as of December 28, 2002): 

        Craig R. Barrett (age 63) has been a director of Intel since 1992 and Chief Executive Officer since 1998. Prior to that, Dr. Barrett was President from 1997 to 2002, Chief Operating Officer from 1993 to 1997 and Executive Vice President from 1990 to 1997. 

        Andrew S. Grove (age 66) has been a director of Intel since 1974 and Chairman of the Board since 1997. Dr. Grove was Chief Executive Officer from 1987 to 1998, President from 1979 to 1997 and Chief Operating Officer from 1976 to 1987. 

        Paul S. Otellini (age 52) has been a director of Intel since May 2002, and President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Otellini was Executive Vice President and General Manager, Intel Architecture Group, from 1998 to January 2002; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Sales and Marketing Group, from 1996 to 1998; and Senior Vice President and General Manager, Sales and Marketing Group, from 1993 to 1996. 

        Leslie L. Vadasz (age 66) was a director of Intel from 1988 to May 2002, has been a Director Emeritus of Intel since May 2002 and has been Executive Vice President and President, Intel Capital, since 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Vadasz was Senior Vice President and Director of Corporate Business Development from 1991 to 2000. 

        Andy D. Bryant (age 52) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Enterprise Services Officer since 2001, and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial and Enterprise Services Officer from 1999 to 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Bryant was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1999, and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1994 to 1999. 

        Sean M. Maloney (age 46) has been Executive Vice President and General Manager, Intel Communications Group, since 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Maloney was Executive Vice President and Director, Sales and Marketing Group, in 2001; Senior Vice President and Director, Sales and Marketing Group, from 1999 to 2001; Vice President and Director, Sales and Marketing Group, from 1998 to 1999; and Vice President, Sales, and General Manager, Asia-Pacific Operations, from 1995 to 1998. 

        Michael R. Splinter (age 52) has been Executive Vice President and Director, Sales and Marketing Group, since 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Splinter was Executive Vice President and General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group, in 2001; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group, from 1999 to 2001; Vice President and General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group, from 1998 to 1999; and Vice President and Assistant General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group, from 1996 to 1998. 

        F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr. (age 51) has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel since 2001, and Vice President and General Counsel from 1987 to 2001. Mr. Dunlap served as Secretary from 1983 to December 2002. 

        Arvind Sodhani (age 48) has been Vice President and Treasurer since 1990. 

        Robert J. Baker (age 47) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group, since 2001, and Vice President and General Manager of Components Manufacturing from 2000 to 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Baker managed Fab Sort Manufacturing from 1999 to 2000 and Microprocessor Components Manufacturing from 1996 to 1999. 

        Sunlin Chou (age 56) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group, since 1998. Mr. Chou was Vice President, Technology and Manufacturing Group, from 1988 to 1998. 

        Ronald J. Smith (age 56) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Wireless Communications and Computing Group, since 2001, and Vice President, Wireless Communications and Computing Group, from 1999 to 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Smith was Vice President and General Manager, Computing and Enhancement Group, from 1996 to 1999. 

17


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Corporate Governance 

        Corporate governance is typically defined as the system that allocates duties and authority among a company's stockholders, board of directors and management. The stockholders elect the board and vote on extraordinary matters; the board is the company's governing body, responsible for hiring, overseeing and evaluating management, particularly the Chief Executive Officer (CEO); and management runs the company's day-to-day operations. The primary responsibilities of Intel's Board of Directors are oversight, counseling and direction to Intel's management in the long-term interests of Intel and its stockholders. The Board's detailed responsibilities include: (a) selecting, regularly evaluating the performance of, and approving the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives; (b) planning for succession with respect to the position of Chief Executive Officer and monitoring management's succession planning for other senior executives; (c) reviewing and, where appropriate, approving Intel's major financial objectives, strategic and operating plans and actions; (d) overseeing the conduct of Intel's business to evaluate whether the business is being properly managed; and (e) overseeing the processes for maintaining Intel's integrity with regard to its financial statements and other public disclosures and compliance with law and ethics. The Board of Directors has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer, working with Intel's other executive officers, the authority and responsibility for managing Intel's business in a manner consistent with Intel's standards and practices, and in accordance with any specific plans, instructions or directions of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer and management are responsible to seek the advice and, in appropriate situations, the approval of the Board with respect to extraordinary actions to be undertaken by Intel. 

        The current Board members include eight independent directors and three members of Intel's senior management: Craig Barrett, Intel's Chief Executive Officer; John Browne, Group Chief Executive of BP plc.; Winston Chen, Chairman of Paramitas Foundation; Andrew Grove, Intel's Chairman of the Board; D. James Guzy, Chairman of Arbor Company; Reed Hundt, Senior Advisor to McKinsey & Company, Inc. and Venture Partner of Benchmark Capital; Paul Otellini, Intel's President and Chief Operating Officer; David Pottruck, President and Co-Chief Executive Officer of The Charles Schwab Corporation (The Charles Schwab Corporation has appointed Mr. Pottruck as its sole Chief Executive Officer effective May 9, 2003); Jane Shaw, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Aerogen, Inc.; David Yoffie, Professor of International Business Administration, Harvard Business School; and Charles Young, President of the University of Florida. The Board also has two Directors Emeriti who may participate in Board meetings but do not vote. 

        The Board and its committees meet throughout the year on a set schedule, and also hold special meetings and act by written consent from time to time as appropriate. Board agendas include regularly scheduled sessions for the independent directors to meet without management present, and the Board's Lead Independent Director leads those sessions. Board members have access to all Intel employees outside of Board meetings, and the Board has a director program that encourages each director to visit different Intel sites worldwide on a regular basis and meet with local management at those sites. 

        The Board has delegated various responsibilities and authority to different Board committees. The Board currently has, and appoints the members of, standing Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance, Executive, Finance and Nominating Committees. Each of these committees has a written charter approved by the Board. 

        The Audit Committee assists the Board in its general oversight of Intel's financial reporting, internal controls and audit functions, and is directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, and oversight of the work of the company's independent auditors. 

        The Compensation Committee reviews and approves salaries and other matters relating to executive compensation, and administers Intel's stock option plans, including reviewing and granting stock options to officers and other employees. The Compensation Committee also reviews and approves various other company compensation policies and matters. 

        The Corporate Governance Committee reviews and reports to the Board on a periodic basis with regard to matters of corporate governance. The Corporate Governance Committee also reviews and assesses the effectiveness of the Board's Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues and recommends to the Board proposed revisions to the Guidelines. In addition, the Corporate Governance Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the agenda for Intel's annual stockholders' meetings, and reviews stockholder proposals and makes recommendations to the Board for action on such proposals. 

        The Executive Committee may exercise the authority of the Board between Board meetings, except to the extent that the Board has delegated authority to another committee or to other persons, and except as limited by Delaware law. 

18


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

        The Finance Committee reviews and recommends matters related to Intel's capital structure, including issuing and restructuring debt and equity securities; Intel's dividend policy and dividend declarations; banking arrangements, including investments of corporate cash; and management of the corporate debt structure. In addition, the Finance Committee reviews and approves structured finance and other cash management transactions whose authorization is not otherwise approved by the Board or delegated to Intel's management. 

        The Nominating Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the size and composition of the Board. The Nominating Committee is responsible for reviewing with the Board from time to time the appropriate skills and characteristics required of Board members in the context of the current make-up of the Board. This assessment includes issues of diversity in numerous factors such as age; understanding of and experience in manufacturing, technology, finance and marketing; and international experience and culture. These factors, and others as considered useful by the Committee, are reviewed in the context of an assessment of the perceived needs of the Board at a particular point in time. The Nominating Committee establishes procedures for the nomination process, recommends candidates for election to the Board and nominates officers for election by the Board. 

        Board members also sit on the Investment Policy Committee for Intel's employee retirement plans. This committee also includes Intel management, and is responsible for adopting and amending investment policies as well as selecting and monitoring service providers for the plans. The committee also selects the investment alternatives offered under Intel's 401(k) Savings Plan. 

        Each director is expected to attend each meeting of the Board and the committees on which he or she serves. In addition to meetings, the Board and its committees review and act upon matters through written consent procedures. 

        The Board has adopted a set of Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues, and the Board's Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the Guidelines and reporting and making recommendations to the Board concerning corporate governance matters. The Guidelines are published on the Internet at www.intel.com/intel/finance/corp_gov.htm. Among other matters, the Guidelines include the following: 

•
A substantial majority of the members of the Board are independent directors, as defined in the applicable rules for NASDAQ*-traded issuers. Independent directors do not receive consulting, legal or other fees from Intel other than Board compensation. Because it is not possible to anticipate or explicitly categorize all potential conflicts of interest that may affect independence, the Board is also responsible to affirmatively determine that each independent director has no other material relationship with Intel or its affiliates or any executive officer of Intel or his or her affiliates. A relationship will be considered "material" if in the judgment of the Board it would interfere with the director's independent judgment. 
•
Members of the Board must act at all times in accordance with the requirements of Intel's Corporate Business Principles, which are applicable to each director in connection with his or her activities relating to Intel. This obligation includes adherence to Intel's policies with respect to conflicts of interest, confidentiality, protection of Intel's assets, ethical conduct in business dealings, and respect for and compliance with applicable law. Any waiver of the requirements of the Corporate Business Principles with respect to any individual director is reported to, and subject to the approval of, the Board of Directors. 
•
Directors stand for reelection every year. Independent directors may not stand for reelection after age 72, and employee directors, other than former Chief Executive Officers, may not stand for reelection after age 65. 
•
The Board's general policy, based on experience, is that the positions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer should be held by separate persons as an aid in the Board's oversight of management. 
•
The Board appoints members of Board committees. 
•
The Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees consist entirely of independent directors. 
•
At least annually, the Board reviews Intel's strategic long-range plan, business unit initiatives, capital projects and budget matters. 
•
The Board has established the position of Lead Independent Director, which is currently held by Dr. Yoffie. Independent directors meet on a regular basis apart from other Board members and 
19


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

management representatives, and the Lead Independent Director is responsible for setting the agenda and running the meetings. 

•
At least annually, the Board evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management personnel. 
•
The Chief Executive Officer periodically reports to the Board on succession planning and management development. 
•
The Board has a process whereby the Board and its members are subject to periodic self-evaluation and self-assessment. 
•
Incentive compensation plans for executives link pay directly and objectively to measured financial goals set in advance by the Compensation Committee. 