ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

 

Industry 

 

We are the world’s largest semiconductor chip maker, supplying advanced technology solutions for the computing and communications industries. Our goal is to be the preeminent building block supplier to the worldwide Internet economy. Our products include chips, boards and other semiconductor components that are the building blocks integral to computers, servers, and networking and communications products. We offer products at various levels of integration, allowing our customers flexibility to create advanced computing and communications systems and products. 

 

Intel’s component-level products consist of integrated circuits used to process information. Our integrated circuits are silicon chips, known as semiconductors, etched with interconnected electronic switches. Developments in semiconductor design and manufacturing have made it possible to decrease the size of circuits and transistors etched into silicon, utilizing less space as a result. This decrease in size enables us to put increased numbers of transistors on an equivalent size chip, decrease the size of the chip or offer an increased number of integrated features, which can result in microprocessors that are faster or incorporate additional features, products that consume less power and/or products that cost less to manufacture. 

 

We were incorporated in California in 1968 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1989. Our Internet address is www.intel.com. On this web site, we publish voluntary reports, which are updated annually, outlining our performance with respect to corporate responsibility and environmental, health and safety compliance (these voluntary reports are not incorporated by reference into this filing). On our Investor Relations web site, located at www.intc.com, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Form 14A related to our annual stockholders’ meeting and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings on our Investor Relations web site are available free of charge. 

 

Products 

 

Our major products include microprocessors; chipsets; boards; wired Ethernet and wireless connectivity products; communications infrastructure components such as network and embedded processors and optical components; microcontrollers; flash memory; application and cellular processors used in cellular handsets and handheld computing devices; and cellular baseband chipsets. 

 

Our major customers are: 

 

  • original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs) who make computer systems, cellular handsets and handheld computing devices, and telecommunications and networking communications equipment;  

 

  • PC and network communications products users (including individuals, large and small businesses, and service providers) who buy PC components and board-level products, as well as Intel’s networking and communications products, through distributor, reseller, retail and OEM channels throughout the world; and  

 

  • other manufacturers, including makers of a wide range of industrial and communications equipment.  

 

Our primary focus is on developing advanced integrated silicon technology solutions, which we believe will provide the performance and technology features necessary to help accelerate the convergence of computing and communications capabilities. Convergence refers to having computing and communications capabilities in an integrated product solution. We also provide key components for networking and communications infrastructures used to connect technology users. We believe users of computing and communications devices want not only higher performance but also other capabilities such as multithreaded or multitasking capability, seamless networking connectivity, improved security, reliability, ease of use and interoperability among devices. It is our goal to incorporate features addressing these capabilities in our various products to meet user demands. 

 

Each of our operating segments uses its core competencies in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, as well as key silicon and platform capabilities, to provide building blocks for technology solutions. The Intel Architecture business provides the advanced technologies to support the desktop, mobile and enterprise computing platforms. During 2003, our Intel Communications 

 

1 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
Group (ICG) focused on wired and wireless network connectivity products, and provided key components for networking and communications infrastructure devices and other industrial and commercial purposes. Finally, during 2003, our Wireless Communications and Computing Group (WCCG) focused on component-level products and platform solutions for the wireless handheld computing and communications market segments. 

 

In December 2003, we announced that we would be consolidating our communications-related businesses into a single organization, the Intel Communications Group. We believe that as computing and communications converge, the consolidation of ICG and WCCG will give us the opportunity to better coordinate product planning and customer focus between our communications infrastructure and wireless client efforts going forward. This reorganization was not effective until fiscal 2004. Because the reporting period for this Form 10-K is as of December 27, 2003, the communications related businesses discussed below and the results of operations for our operating segments in this filing are presented under the organizational structure that existed as of December 27, 2003. 

 

Intel Architecture Business 

 

The Intel Architecture business develops platform solutions based on our microprocessors, chipsets and board-level products, which are optimized for use in the desktop, mobile and server market segments. The end-user products into which our products are ultimately integrated are determined by our customers and how they choose to meet the specific requirements from end users. 

 

  • Desktop platform products incorporate our microprocessors, chipsets and motherboards primarily in desktop computers and entry-level servers and workstations. Our strategy for the desktop platform is to introduce microprocessors and chipsets with higher performance and/or advanced technology features, tailored to the needs of different market segments using a tiered branding approach. Our desktop processors include products such as the Intel® Pentium® 4 processor and the Intel® Celeron® processor.  

 

  • Mobile platform products incorporate our microprocessors, chipsets and wireless communications components primarily in notebook computers. Our mobile processors include products such as our Intel® Pentium® M processor offered separately and as part of Intel® Centrino™ mobile technology. Our strategy for the mobile platform is to deliver products optimized for some or all of the four mobility vectors: performance, battery life, form factor (the physical size and shape of a device) and wireless connectivity. We also offer the Mobile Intel® Pentium® 4 processor, and for the value notebook market segment we offer the mobile Intel® Celeron® processor.  

 

  • Enterprise platform products are targeted at entry-level to high-end servers and workstations, as well as high-performance enterprise-class servers. Servers are systems, often with multiple microprocessors working together, that house large amounts of data, direct traffic, perform complex transactions and control central functions in local and wide area networks and on the Internet. Workstations typically offer higher performance than standard desktop PCs, especially in graphics processing and in the ability to perform several tasks at the same time. Our strategy for the enterprise platform is to provide processors and chipsets with high performance and/or advanced technology features, as well as competitive price for performance, across the range of server and workstation market segments. Our products for the enterprise platform include the Intel® Xeon™ processor family, targeted for entry-level to high-end workstations and servers, and our Itanium® processor family, targeted for enterprise-class servers and supercomputing solutions at the higher end of the enterprise market segment.  

 

Net revenue for the Intel Architecture operating segment made up approximately 87% of our consolidated net revenue in 2003. Revenue from sales of microprocessors within the Intel Architecture operating segment represented approximately 73% of consolidated net revenue in 2003. Our microprocessor business generally has followed a seasonal trend; however, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. For the past five years, the company’s sales of microprocessors were higher in the second half of the year, primarily due to back-to-school and holiday demand. 

 

Microprocessors 

 

A microprocessor is the central processing unit (CPU) of a computer system. It processes system data and controls other devices in the system, acting as the “brains” of the computer. One indicator of microprocessor performance is its clock speed, the rate at which its internal logic operates, which is measured in units of hertz, or cycles processed per second. One megahertz (MHz) equals one million cycles processed per second, and one gigahertz (GHz) equals one billion cycles processed per second. Other factors affecting computer performance include the amount of memory storage, the speed of memory access, the microarchitecture design of the CPU and the speed of communication between the CPU and the chipset. The memory stored on a chip is measured in bytes, with 1,024 bytes 

 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
equaling a kilobyte (KB), 1.049 million bytes equaling a megabyte (MB) and 1.074 billion bytes equaling a gigabyte (GB). Cache is a memory that can be located directly on the microprocessor, permitting quicker access to frequently used data and instructions. Some of our microprocessors have additional levels of cache, second level (L2) cache and third level (L3) cache, to offer higher levels of performance. Other microprocessor features can also enhance system performance or end-user experience by running software more efficiently. For example, we currently offer microprocessors with Hyper-Threading Technology (HT Technology), which allows a single processor to handle two sets of instructions simultaneously. This capability provides benefits in two ways: it helps to run “multithreaded” software, which is designed to execute different parts of a program simultaneously, or helps to use multiple software programs simultaneously in a multitasking environment. To take advantage of the HT Technology capability, a computer system must have a microprocessor that supports the technology, a chipset and BIOS (basic input/output system) that use the technology and an operating system that includes optimizations for the technology. Performance will vary depending on the system hardware and software used. 

 

In 2003, we manufactured a majority of our microprocessors and chipsets using our 130-nanometer (0.13-micron) process technology. In December 2003, we began selling processors manufactured using our 90-nanometer process technology on 300mm wafers, and we introduced these Intel Pentium 4 processors (formerly code-named “Prescott”) in February 2004. One micron equals one millionth of a meter, and one nanometer is one thousandth of a micron, or one billionth of a meter. As we move to each succeeding generation of manufacturing process technology, we utilize less space per transistor, which enables us to fit more transistors on an equivalent size chip, decrease the size of the chip, or offer an increased number of integrated features. This decrease in size can also result in faster microprocessors and semiconductor products that consume less power and/or products that cost less to manufacture. The conversion to using 300mm wafers from 200mm wafers, which began in 2002 and continued in 2003, allows for more efficient use of our capital investment in equipment by providing more than twice as many equivalent chips per wafer. See the discussion of manufacturing process technologies under the heading “Manufacturing, Assembly and Test” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 

 

In 2003, we announced a number of new microprocessor products tailored to meet performance, feature, price and form-factor needs for computing market segments ranging from consumer desktops to high-performance servers. Our products, including some key product introductions, are discussed below. 

 

Desktop Platform.  In 2003, the Intel Pentium 4 processor was our highest sales-volume desktop processor. The Pentium 4 processor is optimized to deliver high performance across a broad range of business and consumer applications. In 2003, we introduced several desktop Intel Pentium 4 processors with HT Technology, running at speeds ranging from 2.4 GHz to 3.2 GHz. These processors are used in conjunction with chipsets that we introduced in April 2003, supporting the 800-MHz system bus. A bus carries data between parts of the system, for example, between the processor and main memory. This new bus can transmit information within the PC up to 50% faster than our previous 533-MHz version. In February 2004, we introduced a version of this processor running at 3.4 GHz. All of these processors come with 512 KB of L2 cache and were built using our 130-nanometer process technology. 

 

In addition, in November 2003, we launched the Intel® Pentium® 4 processor Extreme Edition with HT Technology at 3.2 GHz, targeted at high-end PC game enthusiasts and power users. This processor comes with an additional 2 MB of L3 cache. In February 2004, we introduced a version of this processor running at 3.4 GHz. 

 

The Intel Celeron processor is designed to meet the core computing needs and affordability requirements of value-conscious PC users. During 2003, we introduced several new versions of the desktop Celeron processor running at speeds ranging from 2.3 GHz to 2.8 GHz. These processors have 128 KB of cache and are used in conjunction with chipsets that support the 400-MHz system bus. 

 

Mobile Platform.  We design our mobile platform products with high performance and/or features that enable wireless connectivity, low power consumption and a variety of form factors, including thin, lightweight systems. We offer mobile processors at a variety of price/performance points, allowing our OEM customers to meet the demands of a wide range of notebook PC designs. These notebook designs include transportable notebooks, which provide desktop-like features such as high performance, full-size keyboards, larger screens and multiple drives; thin-and-light models, including those optimized for wireless networking; and ultra-portable designs. Within the ultra-portable design category, we provide specialized low-voltage processors, which consume as little as one watt of power on average, and Ultra Low Voltage processors, which consume as little as half a watt of power on average. Low- voltage processors are targeted for the mini-notebook market segment, while Ultra Low Voltage processors are targeted for the sub-notebook and tablet market segments of mobile PCs weighing less than three pounds and measuring one inch or less in height. 

 

In 2003, we introduced more than 30 new mobile processors, providing solutions across a wide range of market segments. We introduced several Intel Pentium M processors at speeds ranging from 1.3 GHz to 1.7 GHz, as well as low-voltage Pentium M processors at 1.1 GHz and 1.2 GHz, and Ultra Low Voltage versions at 900 MHz and 1.0 GHz. The Intel Pentium M processor is 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
optimized for power management and improved performance, with advanced design features to enable extended battery life and to effectively manage the thermal requirements necessary for smaller form factors. In 2003, there were more than 145 mobile computer system designs based on the Intel Pentium M processor. In addition, in the first half of 2003, we introduced several versions of the Mobile Intel Pentium 4 Processor-M running at speeds ranging from 2.4 GHz to 2.6 GHz. We also introduced several Mobile Intel Pentium 4 processors running at speeds ranging from 2.4 GHz to 3.2 GHz; some of these versions also included HT Technology. 

 

Also in 2003, we introduced two new Ultra Low Voltage versions of our Mobile Intel® Pentium® III Processor-M, running at 900 MHz and 933 MHz, for use in mini-notebooks and sub-notebooks. For the value mobile PC market segment, we introduced mobile Celeron processors at speeds ranging from 1.26 GHz to 2.5 GHz, as well as a low-voltage version at 866 MHz, and an Ultra Low Voltage mobile Celeron processor at 800 MHz. 

 

In January 2004, we introduced two standard-voltage versions of the Intel® Celeron® M processor for mobile PCs at speeds of 1.3 GHz and 1.2 GHz as well as an ultra-low voltage version at 800 MHz. These three versions feature a 400-MHz processor system bus and 512 KB of L2 cache, and support advanced mobile power management. 

 

In 2003, we focused significant effort on helping to advance the wireless mobile computing environment. In March 2003, we introduced Intel Centrino mobile technology, our first computing technology designed and optimized specifically for performance mobility. Intel Centrino mobile technology consists of an Intel® Pentium® M processor and the Intel® 855 chipset family, both offered by the Mobile Platforms Group within the Intel Architecture business, as well as a wireless network connection, which is based on the 802.11 industry standard, from ICG. The 802.11 communication standard refers to a family of specifications developed for wireless LAN (WLAN, or “WiFi”) technology. These specifications describe the speed and frequency of the over-the-air interface between a wireless client and a base station or between two wireless clients. 

 

By supporting the 802.11 WLAN industry standard, Intel Centrino mobile technology enables users to take advantage of wireless capabilities at work and at home, as well as at thousands of wireless “hotspots” already installed around the world. Hotspots provide paid or free WLAN service in cafes, hotels, restaurants, retail shops, airports, trains and other public meeting areas. We have also created a Wireless Verification Program to test Intel Centrino mobile technology with leading hotspot vendor solutions to increase the probability of a consistent wireless connectivity experience worldwide. At year-end, in conjunction with wireless network providers, we had verified more than 25,000 hotspots. 

 

Enterprise Platform.  The Intel Architecture business also supports the enterprise platform by offering products that address various levels of data processing and compute-intensive applications. Our Intel Xeon processor family of products supports a range of entry-level to high-end technical and commercial computing applications for the workstation and server market segments. Our Intel Itanium processor family of products provides an even higher level of computing performance to support data processing, handling high transaction volumes and other compute-intensive applications for enterprise-class servers, as well as supercomputing solutions. The Intel Xeon processor for dual-processing (DP) servers with HT Technology is designed for two-way servers. For servers based on four or more processors, we offer the Intel Xeon processor for multiprocessing (MP) servers with HT Technology. For the enterprise-class market segment, we offer the Intel® Itanium® 2 processor. 

 

In March 2003, we introduced the Intel Xeon processor DP at speeds of up to 3 GHz, with a 512 KB L2 cache and system buses running at up to 533 MHz. Servers based on Intel Xeon processors are typically used as general-purpose servers for web hosting, data caching, search engines, security and streaming media, and as workstations for digital content creation, mechanical and electrical design, financial analysis and 3D modeling. In July 2003, we introduced versions of our Intel Xeon processor DP with 1 MB of L3 cache running at 3 GHz, and in October 2003, we introduced a version running at 3.2 GHz. 

 

In June 2003, we introduced the Intel Xeon processor MP with up to 2 MB of integrated L3 cache, running at speeds of up to 2.8 GHz, designed for mid-tier and back-end servers based on four or more processors. 

 

In June 2003, we also introduced the new Itanium 2 processor, an enterprise-class processor designed for the most data-intensive, business-critical and technical computing applications. This processor runs at speeds of up to 1.5 GHz with up to 6 MB of integrated L3 cache. The new Itanium 2 processor delivers 30% to 50% greater performance than the previous Itanium 2 processor, while maintaining system and software compatibility with other Itanium processors. In September 2003, we introduced an Itanium 2 processor for DP systems running at 1.4 GHz with 1.5 MB of L3 cache. This processor broadens our Itanium processor family line of products by providing new levels of price/performance to manage data processing and technical computing needs for lower end dual processing enterprise and high-performance computing systems. In addition, in the third quarter of 2003, we introduced the Low Voltage Intel Itanium 2 processor running at 1.0 GHz with 1.5 MB of L3 cache. This processor consumes approximately half the power of high-end Itanium 2 processors and provides a lower power platform for the entry-level market segment. 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
Chipsets 

 

If the microprocessor is considered the “brains” of the PC, the chipset operates as the PC’s “nervous system”—sending data from the processor to input, display and storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse, monitor, hard drive, and CD or DVD drive. Chipsets perform essential logic functions, such as balancing the performance of the system and removing bottlenecks. Chipsets also extend the graphics, audio, video and other capabilities of many systems based on our processors. Finally, chipsets control the access between the CPU and main memory. Our chipsets are compatible with a variety of industry-accepted bus specifications, such as the Peripheral Components Interconnect (PCI) local bus specification and the Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) specification. Our customers want memory architecture alternatives, and as a result, we currently offer chipsets supporting Double Data Rate (DDR) Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM), Synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) and Rambus* DRAM (RDRAM). 

 

To help computer makers reduce the time-to-market for their products, provide new capabilities and enable overall system performance to scale as processor performance increases, we design, manufacture and sell chipsets for various computing market segments. With our chipset products, we also offer motherboards that use those chipsets, thereby offering a more complete solution stack for customers looking for Intel-based solutions. In April 2003, along with the introduction of the Intel Pentium 4 processor with HT Technology, we introduced a supporting chipset, the Intel® 875P chipset. This chipset offers two significant platform innovations: Intel® Performance Acceleration Technology (PAT) and Communications Streaming Architecture (CSA). PAT increases the speed of data transmission between the processor and system memory in order to increase performance, while CSA, in conjunction with the Intel® PRO/1000 CT desktop connection Gigabit Ethernet controller, doubles the networking bandwidth of the system. 

 

In May 2003, we introduced the Intel® 865G and 865PE chipsets. Supporting HT Technology and our 800-MHz system bus, as well as dual-channel DDR memory and enhanced graphics, these chipsets are designed to deliver improved performance for corporate and mainstream desktop computer users. We also introduced the Intel® 865P and 865GV chipsets to support processors with our 400-MHz and 533-MHz system buses. 

 

In March 2003, we introduced the Intel® 855 family of chipsets with two new chipsets developed specifically for the mobile market segment. The Intel® 855PM chipset supports discrete graphics (a non-integrated graphics solution within a chipset) and a low-power graphics power management mode; the Intel® 855GM chipset provides integrated Intel® Extreme Graphics 2 technology for improved 3D graphics. In June 2003, we introduced the Intel® 852PM and Intel® 852GME chipsets, which, when combined with the Mobile Intel Pentium 4 Processor-M, deliver the advantages of being able to accommodate DDR memory running at 333/266 MHz at up to 2 GB capacity as well as providing support for 533-MHz system buses. The 852GME chipset adds Intel Extreme Graphics 2 technology. In September 2003, we added the Intel® 855GME chipset, which offers new power-saving features and, when used in combination with DDR running at 333 MHz, delivers enhanced graphics and memory performance for notebook PCs based on Intel Centrino mobile technology. 

 

Board-Level Products 

 

We offer board-level products designed for our microprocessors and chipsets to give our OEM customers flexibility by enabling them to choose whether to buy at the component or board level. OEMs purchase products from us at the board level to help reduce their time-to-market. 

 

Intel Communications Group 

 

ICG provides silicon and integrated networking and communications building blocks for OEMs and other systems builders. Our products include wired Ethernet products; wireless connectivity products; and communication infrastructure components, such as programmable network and embedded processors and optical components. Embedded processing components from ICG are also used in products such as industrial automation equipment, point-of-sale systems and other applications. Finally, ICG also provides microcontrollers primarily used in automotive systems. 

 

Net revenue for ICG made up approximately 7% of our consolidated net revenue for 2003. 

 

Wired Ethernet Products 

 

Ethernet is an industry-standard technology used to translate and transmit data in packets across networks. As Ethernet expands from the traditional local area network (LAN) environment into the WLAN, metropolitan area network (MAN) and networked storage market segments, we are expanding our Ethernet product portfolio to address these other market segments. For the MAN market 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
segment, we offer Ethernet products at multiple levels of integration to provide a low-cost solution with increased speed and signal transmission distance (commonly referred to as “reach”). In networked storage, we are developing products that are intended to enable storage resources to be added at any location on an Ethernet network. 

 

Our LAN strategy is to maintain leadership in client Ethernet connections as the market segment continues to transition from Fast Ethernet to Gigabit Ethernet in desktop computing and to 10-Gigabit Ethernet in enterprise data servers. Gigabit Ethernet networks allow the transmission of 1 billion individual bits of information per second; 10-Gigabit Ethernet networks transmit 10 billion bits of information per second. By contrast, Fast Ethernet networks transmit 100 million bits of information per second (Mbps, or megabits per second). 

 

In March 2003, we introduced the first 10-Gigabit Ethernet network interface card for servers, the Intel® PRO/10GbE LR server adapter, as well as a new Gigabit Ethernet controller, the Intel® PRO/1000 CT desktop connection. The Intel PRO/1000 works in tandem with the Intel 875P chipset and Intel’s Communications Streaming Architecture (CSA) to increase the available networking bandwidth (compared to PCI bus-based solutions). 

 

In October 2003, we introduced a new series of products designed to help eliminate server input/output (I/O) bottlenecks and meet the high-bandwidth needs of emerging storage, networking and telecommunications applications. The new products include the Intel® IOP331 I/O processor, based on Intel XScale® technology; the Intel® IOP315 I/O processor chipset, with support for storage-area network and network-attached storage applications; and the Intel® 41210 serial-to-parallel PCI bridge, which is designed to simplify the transition from PCI to the new PCI Express interconnect technology. 

 

Wireless Connectivity Products 

 

Our strategy in wireless connectivity is to significantly accelerate deployment of WLAN capability by developing WLAN products and fostering the adoption of integrated WLAN into the mobile and notebook computer segments. In 2003, we introduced the Intel® PRO/Wireless 2100 and Intel® PRO/Wireless 2100A network connections for notebook computers based on Intel Centrino mobile technology. The Intel PRO/Wireless 2100 network connection features 802.11b wireless functionality, and the Intel PRO/Wireless 2100A features both 801.11a and 802.11b capability. Compared to products based on 802.11b, products based on the 802.11a specification can provide a faster exchange of data between computing devices and networks. 

 

In January 2004, we introduced the Intel® PRO/Wireless 2200BG network connection, featuring both 802.11b and 802.11g wireless functionality for notebook PCs based on Intel Centrino mobile technology. The 802.11b and 802.11g specifications use the same 2.4-GHz band, but the 802.11g specification has a faster transmission speed. The Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG solution allows a data transfer rate of 54 Mbps and is designed to maintain a high throughput at longer ranges in office or home environments, along with efficient use of power to enable longer system battery life. We plan to have an 802.11a/b/g wireless networking component in production in 2004. 

 

Communications Infrastructure Products 

 

Our communications infrastructure components include products such as network and embedded processors, which provide programmable building blocks for modular communications platforms, and optical components. Unlike proprietary system platforms, modular communication platforms are standards-based solutions that offer network infrastructure builders flexible, low-cost, faster time-to-market options for designing their networks. Our strategy in network processing is to develop an industry-leading product roadmap, support efforts to develop modular communications standards and enable activities to accelerate silicon deployment. Our network processor products are based on the Intel® Internet Exchange Architecture (Intel® IXA) and include a range of advanced, programmable devices that are used in networking equipment to rapidly manage and direct data moving across the Internet and corporate networks. At the core of Intel IXA is the Intel XScale microarchitecture, which offers low power consumption and high-performance processing for a wide range of Internet devices. 

 

In February 2003, we introduced three network processors for home and small-business networking equipment: the Intel® IXP420, IXP421 and IXP422 network processors. These processors are designed to provide equipment makers with a wide range of WAN and LAN interfaces for a variety of applications. The Linksys Group, Inc., a division of Cisco Systems, Inc. and a developer of wireless devices for business and hotspot environments, announced that it is using one of these processors in a new generation of 802.11 wireless access points for small to mid-size businesses. 

 

Our embedded processing components are used for high-performance applications and control processing for modular communications and networked storage equipment. These processing components are also used in industrial automation equipment, 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
point-of-sale systems and monitoring equipment, as well as other applications. Our product families include the Celeron and Intel® Pentium® III processors, as well as the Mobile Intel Pentium 4 Processor-M and the Intel Pentium 4 processor. We also offer Intel Xeon processors with HT Technology, providing increased performance for wireless infrastructure equipment. In April 2003, we added the Intel Pentium M processor for embedded communications applications, which brings higher performance and better power management to ultra-dense modular communications equipment. It is used to manage network processors, line cards and other components in equipment such as radio network controllers and media gateway controllers. 

 

In June 2003, we announced that we will support Advanced Switching, a standards-based extension of the PCI Express technology designed for the computing industry. Advanced Switching builds on the PCI Express technology to provide advanced communications features for interconnecting components and system boards in communications, storage and embedded applications. Having a widely accepted modular specification for interconnect technology is expected to lower development costs, increase reusability of technology and reduce time-to-market of new products. In September 2003, we demonstrated our first chips based on PCI Express technology and detailed our plans for integrating the next-generation interconnect of this technology into forthcoming computing and communications products in 2004. 

 

In October 2003, we announced a new suite of Intel® NetStructure™ communications building blocks based on the Advanced Telecom Computing Architecture (an architecture for building standards-based wireless base station equipment) and featuring Intel microprocessors and network processors. The new products are designed to deliver high performance and high availability in carrier-grade wireless and wired telecommunications infrastructure applications. 

 

In March 2003, we introduced the Intel® TXN18107 10-Gpbs XFP Transceiver, an optical transceiver that operates at multiple data rates, enabling equipment manufacturers to qualify a single part for multiple applications. 

 

Microcontrollers 

 

Our microcontrollers are primarily used in automotive systems. Product families include the Intel® 186, Intel386™, Intel486™ and Intel® i960® processors; and 8-bit and 16-bit microcontrollers. 

 

Wireless Communications and Computing Group 

 

WCCG provides component-level building blocks for digital cellular communications and other applications requiring both low-power processing and high performance. For the handheld platform, including cellular phones and personal digital assistants (PDAs), our current products include flash memory, application and cellular processors based on the Intel XScale microarchitecture, and cellular baseband chipsets. In addition, our Intel® Personal Internet Client Architecture (Intel® PCA) outlines an architecture for communications, application and memory subsystems for data-enabled mobile phones, and portable handheld devices. Growth in the market segment for handheld computing and communications devices is dependent upon the increased use of devices with more data-intensive applications and additional capabilities. 

 

Net revenue for WCCG made up approximately 6% of our consolidated net revenue for 2003. 

 

Flash Memory 

 

Flash memory is a specialized type of memory component used to store user data and program code; it retains this information even when the power is off. Flash memory is based on either NOR or NAND architectures. Our flash memory is based on the NOR architecture. NOR flash memory, with its fast “read” capabilities, has traditionally been used to store executable code. NAND flash memory, which is slower in reading data but faster in writing data, has traditionally been used in products that either required large storage capacity or fast write applications, such as MP3 music players, memory cards and digital cameras. Although our NOR flash memory is currently used predominantly in mobile phones and PDAs, it is also found in other consumer products, including set-top boxes and MP3 players. 

 

In April 2003, we introduced the Intel® Ultra-Thin Stacked Chip-Scale Packaging, featuring 1.8-volt Intel StrataFlash® wireless memory. This product allows up to five ultra-thin memory chips to be stacked in one package, delivering greater memory capacity and lower power consumption in a smaller package. With heights as low as 1.0mm, this new package allows manufacturers to increase memory density and provide features such as camera capabilities, games and e-mail in relatively thin cell phones. Intel StrataFlash wireless memory technology allows 2 bits of data to be stored in each memory cell, for higher storage capacity and lower cost. 

 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
In October 2003, we introduced the Intel StrataFlash® Wireless Memory System, a memory system designed for next-generation handsets that require memory storage for large embedded data applications such as camera images and audio and video files. The system contains code execution, data storage and RAM working space memory in one small package and operates at 1.8 volts to support longer battery life. 

 

Application Processors for Handheld Computing Devices 

 

We are working toward the convergence of computing and communications in the mobile handheld computing market segment by developing technology that combines baseband communications features with memory and applications processing functionality. In March 2003, we introduced “system-in-a-package” technology in the form of three new processors: the Intel® PXA263, Intel® PXA260 and Intel® PXA255 microprocessors. These processors, which are designed for PDAs and are based on Intel PCA, stack an Intel XScale technology-based processor directly on top of Intel StrataFlash memory chips in a single package. With stack packaging, manufacturers of these handheld devices can decrease the size of the form factor, as well as help reduce their time-to-market. 

 

In September 2003, we announced key details about our next-generation of Intel XScale technology-based processors to be used in cell phones, PDAs and other wireless devices. We plan to incorporate additional features in these processors that are intended to help wireless devices capture higher quality pictures, extend battery life and deliver fast multimedia performance. These features will include Intel® Quick Capture technology, an interface that allows a digital camera to connect to a cell phone or PDA; Intel® Wireless MMX™ technology, which is designed to speed multimedia performance; and Wireless Intel SpeedStep® technology, which dynamically adjusts the power and performance of the processor based on CPU demand, often resulting in lower power consumption for wireless handheld devices. 

 

Cellular Processors 

 

Addressing the trend toward the convergence of computing and communications, in February 2003 we introduced the first cellular processor using advanced “wireless-Internet-on-a-chip” technology: the Intel® PXA800F cellular processor. It is the industry’s first product that integrates computing, communications and memory functions on one chip. Built on our 130-nanometer silicon manufacturing technology, the chip combines a high-performance, low-power processor running at 312 MHz based on the Intel XScale technology with 4 MB of integrated on-chip flash memory and 512 KB of SRAM. It also includes a 104-MHz digital signal processor with additional memory, resulting in a complete system on a single chip for GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications)/GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) cellular networked devices. Although the timing of availability for this cellular processor was later than we had initially planned, we continue to work with our customers to help them launch products incorporating this processor. 

 

Cellular Baseband Chipsets 

 

We offer baseband chipsets for multi-mode, multi-band wireless handsets. Our chipsets support multiple wireless standards and deliver enhanced voice quality and high integration capability, with reduced power consumption and costs. We offer the Intel® D5205 TDMA (Time Division Multiple Access) Baseband Chipset, a compact two-chip solution, and the Intel® 5206 TDMA Baseband Chip, a compact single-chip solution, both for dual-mode cellular and Personal Communication Services (PCS) band applications. We also offer the Intel® D5314 PDCharm2 Single-Chip Baseband, a compact single-chip solution for dual-rate (full- and half-rate) baseband processing for personal digital cellular handheld phones. 

 

Manufacturing, Assembly and Test 

 

As of year-end 2003, more than 75% of our wafer manufacturing, including microprocessor, chipset, flash memory and networking silicon fabrication, was conducted within the U.S. at our facilities in Oregon, Arizona, New Mexico, Massachusetts, California and Colorado. Outside the U.S., almost 25% of our wafer manufacturing, also including wafer fabrication for microprocessors, chipsets, flash memory and networking silicon, was conducted at our facilities in Israel and Ireland. Currently, our facilities in Israel manufacture primarily chipsets. 

 

In 2003, we continued to transition our manufacturing facilities from 200mm (8-inch) wafers to 300mm (12-inch) wafers. The conversion to 300mm wafers allows for more efficient use of our capital investment in equipment by providing more than twice as many equivalent chips per wafer as 200mm wafers. Two of our facilities, in Oregon and New Mexico, currently manufacture products using 300mm wafers. We expect to have three 300mm wafer fabrication facilities by the end of 2004, with the third facility under construction in Ireland. We also announced plans for two additional facilities, in Oregon and Arizona, to start production using 300mm wafers after 2004. However, as of year-end 2003, a substantial majority of our microprocessors and chipsets were manufactured on 200mm wafers in Arizona, Oregon, Israel, Massachusetts, Ireland, New Mexico and California. 

 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
We also began manufacturing microprocessors on our most advanced 90-nanometer (a nanometer is one billionth of a meter) process technology, the next generation beyond our 130-nanometer (0.13-micron) process technology. The 90-nanometer process technology is our most advanced high-volume production process featuring structures smaller than the size of a virus, the smallest microorganism. As we move to each succeeding generation of manufacturing process technology, we utilize less space per transistor, which enables us to put more transistors on an equivalent size chip, decrease the size of the chip or offer an increased number of integrated features, which can result in faster microprocessors, products that consume less power and/or products that cost less to manufacture. As of year-end 2003, the majority of our microprocessors and chipsets were manufactured using our 130-nanometer process technology. 

 

We manufacture flash memory using our 130-nanometer process technology primarily in New Mexico, and also in Ireland and California. We also manufacture flash memory in Colorado using our 180-nanometer (0.18-micron) technology. 

 

We manufacture microprocessor- and networking-related board-level products, primarily in Malaysia and California. We also use subcontractors to manufacture some board-level products and systems, and purchase certain communications networking products from external vendors, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region. 

 

We perform a substantial majority of our components assembly and test at facilities in Malaysia, the Philippines, Costa Rica and China. In the third quarter of 2003, we announced plans to begin construction on an additional assembly and test facility in Chengdu, China. We plan to continue to invest in new assembly and test technologies and facilities to keep pace with our microprocessor, chipset and flash technology improvements. To augment capacity in the U.S. as well as internationally, we use subcontractors to perform assembly of certain products, primarily flash memory, chipsets, and networking and communications products, as well as third-party manufacturing services (foundries) to manufacture wafers for certain components, including networking and communications products. Our performance expectations for business integrity; ethics; environmental, health and safety compliance; and employment practices are the same regardless of whether our supplier and subcontractor operations are based in the U.S. or elsewhere. 

 

We have thousands of suppliers, including subcontractors, providing our various materials and service needs. We set expectations for supplier performance and reinforce those expectations with periodic assessments. We communicate those expectations to our suppliers regularly and work with them to implement improvements when necessary. We seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of these materials and resources, but we may rely on a single or limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country. In those cases, we develop and implement plans and actions to reduce the exposure that would result from a disruption in supply. We also typically have multiple factories at various sites around the world producing our products. However, some products are produced in only one factory, and again we seek, through other actions and plans, to reduce the exposure that would result from a disruption at that factory. 

 

Manufacturing of integrated circuits is a complex process. Normal manufacturing risks include errors and interruptions in the production process, defects in raw materials and disruptions at suppliers, as well as other risks, all of which can affect the timing of the manufacturing ramp and yields. A substantial decrease in yields would result in higher manufacturing costs and the possibility of not being able to produce sufficient volume to meet specific product demand. 

 

We operate globally, with sales offices and research and development activities, as well as manufacturing and assembly and test facilities, in many countries, so we are subject to risks and factors associated with doing business outside the U.S. Global operations involve inherent risks that include currency controls and fluctuations, tariff and import regulations, and regulatory requirements that may limit our or our customers’ ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop or sell products in particular countries. As part of our site-selection due diligence processes, we employ assessments of several criteria, which include the property’s physical characteristics or constructability, local utility infrastructure, transportation capability, availability of technical workforce, construction and supplier capabilities, permitting requirements and investment conditions. Employment practices and labor rights issues are incorporated in the diligence. Evaluations also include ratings for security concerns, which include corruption, terrorism, crime and political instability. Security concerns alone are sufficient to remove projects from consideration. Regardless of these efforts, if terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest, or political instability occurs in the U.S., Israel or other locations, such events may disrupt production, logistics, security and communications, and could also result in reduced demand for Intel’s products. The impact of major health concerns, or of large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utility or other infrastructure providers, on Intel, its suppliers, customers or other third parties could also adversely affect our business and impact customer order patterns. We could also be affected if labor issues disrupt our transportation arrangements or those of our customers or suppliers. On a worldwide basis, we regularly review our key infrastructure, systems, services and suppliers both internally and externally, to seek to identify significant vulnerabilities as well as areas of potential business impact if a disruptive event were to occur. Once they are identified, we assess the risks, and as we consider them to be appropriate, we initiate actions intended to reduce the risks and their potential impact. However, there can be no assurance that we have identified all significant risks or that we can mitigate all identified risks with reasonable effort. 

 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. The types and amounts of insurance obtained vary from time to time and from location to location depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Our worldwide risk and insurance programs are continually evaluated to seek to obtain the most favorable terms and conditions. 

 

For information regarding environmental matters and proceedings related to certain facilities, refer to the headings “Compliance with Environmental, Health and Safety Regulations” below in this Item and “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. 

 

Employees 

 

As of December 27, 2003, we employed approximately 79,700 people worldwide, with approximately 60% of these employees located in the U.S. 

 

Sales and Marketing 

 

In 2003, we conducted business with more than 2,000 direct customers worldwide. Most of our products are sold or licensed through sales offices located near major concentrations of users, primarily throughout the Americas, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Japan. Sales agreements typically contain standard terms and conditions covering matters such as pricing, payment terms and warranties, as well as indemnities for issues specific to our products, such as patent and copyright indemnities. From time to time we may enter into additional agreements with customers covering, for example, changes from our standard terms and conditions, new product development and marketing, private-label branding and other matters. Sales of particular products are generally conducted with purchase orders issued under the sales agreements. Most of Intel’s sales are made using electronic and web-based processes that allow the customer to review inventory availability and to track the progress of specific goods under order. Pricing on particular products may vary based on volumes ordered and other factors. 

 

We sell our products worldwide directly to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs). ODMs provide design and/or manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label resellers. We also sell our products to industrial and retail distributors. Dell Inc. contributed approximately 19% to our total sales, and Hewlett-Packard Company contributed approximately 15% to our total sales, in 2003. A substantial majority of the sales to these customers consisted of Intel Architecture business products. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. For the information regarding revenue and operating profit by reportable segments and revenue from unaffiliated customers by geographic region/country, see “Note 22: Operating Segment and Geographic Information” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 

 

Typically, distributors handle a wide variety of products, including those that compete with our products, and fill orders for many customers. Most of our sales to distributors are made under agreements allowing for price protection on unsold merchandise and a right of return on stipulated quantities of unsold merchandise. We also utilize third-party sales representatives who generally do not offer directly competitive products but may carry complementary items manufactured by others. Sales representatives do not maintain a product inventory; instead, their customers place orders directly with us or through distributors. 

 

Our worldwide reseller sales channel consists of thousands of indirect customers that are systems builders who purchase Intel microprocessors and other products from our distributors. These systems builders receive various levels of technical and marketing services and support directly from Intel. We have a “boxed processor program” that allows distributors to sell Intel microprocessors in small quantities to these systems-builder customers; boxed processors are also made available in direct retail outlets. Since 1994, our worldwide reseller sales channel has grown substantially and has become increasingly important to our business. 

 

Our global marketing strategy is designed to associate our brands with advanced technology and innovation. Under the Intel® brand umbrella, the Intel Inside® brand is intended to represent technology leadership, quality and reliability. At the product level, the Itanium, Intel Xeon, Pentium, Celeron and Intel Centrino brands are part of the Intel Inside brand family. 

 

We promote brand awareness and generate demand through our direct marketing and co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities include television, print and web-based advertising as well as press relations, consumer and trade events, and industry and consumer communications. In 2003, the primary focus of our direct marketing activities was the Intel Centrino mobile technology launch, with the Intel Pentium 4 processor with HT Technology and other product-level brands receiving targeted support. 

 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
Purchases by customers often allow them to participate in cooperative advertising and marketing programs such as the Intel Inside Program. Through the Intel Inside Program, OEMs are licensed to place the Intel Inside logos on computers with our microprocessors and our other technology and use the brands in advertisements. The program includes a market development component that accrues funds based on purchases and partially reimburses the OEMs for advertisements for products featuring the Intel Inside brand. This program broadens brand reach beyond the scope of our direct advertising. 

 

Additionally, our reseller sales channel marketing programs are intended to extend the Intel Inside brand reach to channel customers and the businesses and individuals that purchase computer systems from them. In 2003, we initiated a program to extend the awareness of our brand outside of the OEM and system integrator community. As part of the Intel Centrino mobile technology launch, new co-marketing programs were initiated with wireless service providers and at public wireless access point locations. New co-marketing activities with independent system vendors are also under way. 

 

Our products are typically shipped under terms that transfer title to the customer, even in arrangements for which the customer may have a right to return or to exchange the products and the recognition of revenue on the sale is deferred. The sales agreements typically provide that payment is due at a later date, such as 30 days after shipment, delivery or the customer’s use of the product. Our credit department sets accounts receivable and shipping limits for individual customers, for the purpose of controlling credit risk to Intel arising from outstanding account balances. We assess credit risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis, and from this analysis, we establish credit limits and determine whether we will seek to use one or more credit support devices, such as obtaining some form of third-party guaranty or standby letter of credit, or obtaining credit insurance for all or a portion of the account balance. Credit losses may still be incurred due to bankruptcy, fraud or other failure of the customer to pay. See “Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts” on page 90 of this Form 10-K for information about our allowance for doubtful receivables. 

 

Backlog 

 

We do not believe that a backlog as of any particular date is indicative of future results. Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of standard products. We have some agreements that give a customer the right to purchase a specific number of products during a specified time period. Although these agreements do not generally obligate the customer to purchase any particular number of such products, some of these agreements do contain billback clauses. Under these clauses, customers who do not purchase the full volume agreed upon are liable for billback on previous shipments up to the price appropriate for the quantity actually purchased. As a matter of industry practice, billback clauses are difficult to enforce. The quantity actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes in the customer’s needs. In light of industry practice and our experience, we do not believe that such agreements are meaningful for determining backlog amounts. We believe that only a small portion of our order backlog is non-cancelable and that the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant. 

 

Competition 

 

As part of our overall strategy to compete in each relevant market segment, we use our core competencies in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits and financial resources, as well as our global presence and brand recognition. Also, under our Intel Capital program we make equity investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Our products compete, to various degrees, on the basis of performance, quality, features that enhance user experience, brand recognition, price and availability. Our ability to compete also depends upon our ability to provide worldwide support for our customers. Rapid technological advances characterize the computing and communications industries, and our ability to compete depends on our ability to improve our products and processes faster than our competitors, anticipate changing customer requirements, and develop and launch new products to meet changing requirements, while reducing our costs at the same time. Our products compete with products developed for similar or rival architectures and with products based on the same or rival technology standards. Our competitors also routinely add features to their products, seek to increase the performance of their products and/or sell their products at lower prices over time. We cannot predict whether our products will continue to compete successfully with existing rival architectures and/or whether new architectures will establish or gain broad acceptance or increase competition with our products. We also cannot predict which competing technology standards will become the prevailing standards in the market segments in which we compete. 

 

In the semiconductor industry, as unit volumes grow, production experience is accumulated and costs decrease, further competition develops, and as a result, prices decline rapidly. The life cycle of our products is very short, sometimes less than a year. Many companies compete with us in the various computing, networking and communications market segments, and are engaged in the same basic fields of activity, including research and development. Worldwide, these competitors range in size from large established 

 

11 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
multinational companies with multiple product lines to smaller companies and new entrants to the marketplace that compete in specialized market segments. In some cases, our competitors are also our customers and/or suppliers. Some competitors have integrated operations, including their own manufacturing facilities, while other competitors perform certain functions themselves and outsource design, manufacturing and/or other functions. Competitors who outsource their manufacturing can significantly reduce their capital expenditures. 

 

With the trend toward convergence in computing and communications products, product offerings will likely cross over into multiple categories, offering us new opportunities, but also resulting in more businesses that compete with us. Competition tends to increase pricing pressure on our products, which may mean that we must offer our products at lower prices than we had anticipated, resulting in lower profits. In markets where our competitors have established products and brand recognition, it may be inherently difficult for us to compete against them. When we believe it is appropriate, we will take various steps, including introducing new products, discontinuing older products, reducing prices, and offering rebates and other incentives in order to increase acceptance of our latest products and to be competitive within each relevant market segment. 

 

Most of our products, including all of our Intel architecture microprocessors and chipsets, are built in our own manufacturing facilities, although a substantial portion of ICG’s manufacturing is performed by third-party manufacturers. We believe that our network of manufacturing facilities and assembly/test facilities gives us a competitive advantage. This network enables us to have more direct control over our processes, quality control, product cost, volume and timing of production and other factors. These types of facilities are very expensive, and many of our competitors do not own such facilities because they cannot afford to do so or because their business models involve the use of third-party facilities for manufacturing and assembly/test. These “fabless semiconductor companies” include Broadcom Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and VIA Technologies, Inc. Some of our competitors own portions of such facilities through investment or joint-venture arrangements with other companies. There is a group of third-party manufacturing and assembly/test companies (foundries) that offer their services to companies without owned facilities or companies needing additional capacity. These foundries may also offer intellectual property, design services, and other goods and services to our competitors. 

 

Many of our competitors are licensed to use our patents, and we are licensed to use their patents, through various cross-licensing agreements. Some competitors have broad licenses with us, and under current case law, such licenses permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others. If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing competing products. 

 

We plan to continue to cultivate new businesses and work with the computing, communications and consumer electronics industries through standards bodies, trade associations, OEMs, ODMs, and independent software and operating system vendors, to align the industry to offer products that take advantage of the latest market trends and usage models. These efforts include helping to create the infrastructure for wireless network connectivity. We are also working with the industry to develop software applications and operating systems that take advantage of our microprocessors, chipsets and other next-generation semiconductor devices with higher performance or advanced features, including advanced technology capabilities integrated at the silicon level. We frequently participate in industry initiatives designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and other aspects of technologies that could be adopted as standards by standards-setting organizations. Our competitors may also participate in the same initiatives, and our participation does not ensure that any standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will be consistent with our product planning. Participation in such initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt the standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt standards or specifications proposed by Intel. Any Intel patents implicated by our participation in such initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against others who might be infringing those patents. 

 

We compete globally in all of the market segments in which we offer products. We cannot be assured that the patents and licenses on our products will be honored in all regions. As various geographies become more significant to our business, we cannot be sure of the scope of intellectual property rights that will be granted to us or to third parties with whom we do not have licenses. Thus, we have no assurance about the scope of rights that we can enforce against others in various geographies where our business is growing or the rights that they can assert against us. In addition, in certain regions, governments may adopt regulations or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or requiring that products meet specified standards that serve to favor local companies, negatively impacting Intel’s ability to achieve an economic return for its innovation and investment. 

 

12 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
Intel Architecture Business 

 

For the desktop platform, our strategy is to introduce microprocessors and chipsets with higher performance and/or advanced technology features, tailored to the needs of different market segments using a tiered branding approach. For the mobile platform, our strategy is to deliver products optimized for some or all of the four mobility vectors: performance, battery life, form factor and wireless connectivity. For the enterprise platform, our strategy is to provide processors and chipsets with high performance and/or advanced technology features, as well as competitive price for performance for entry-level to high-end servers and workstations. 

 

Our financial results are substantially dependent on microprocessor sales by the Intel Architecture operating segment. Many of our competitors (including Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), our primary microprocessor competitor) market software-compatible products that are intended to compete with Intel architecture-based processors. We also face competition from companies offering rival microprocessor designs, such as International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), which supplies microprocessors to Apple Computer, Inc. AMD has introduced microprocessor product offerings for the desktop and server market segments that are based on 32-bit architecture with 64-bit memory address extensions. Microprocessors with 64-bit addressing capability can address significantly more memory than 32-bit microprocessors. We currently have desktop and server microprocessor product offerings based on our IA-32 architecture, and we offer the Intel Itanium processor family, based on 64-bit architecture, for enterprise-class servers and supercomputing solutions. We believe that the features of the Itanium architecture, including high-end performance, scalability, 64-bit addressing and reliability, provide capabilities that users in this market segment require. We plan to introduce Intel Xeon processors based on the IA-32 architecture with 64-bit extension technology for workstations and servers in mid-2004. We continuously evaluate all of our product offerings and the timing of their introduction, taking into account factors such as customer requirements, availability of infrastructure to take advantage of product features and maturity of applications software for each type of processor in the relevant market segments. Any decision to make microprocessors with 64-bit extension technology available in the desktop or other market segments will be based on both timing of availability of the infrastructure (including an operating system geared toward consumers) required to support them and demand for these processors from our OEM customers. 

 

Competitive product offerings continue to increase in the market segments where we have product offerings. Our desktop processors compete with products offered by AMD, IBM and VIA, among others. Our mobile microprocessor products compete with products offered by AMD, IBM, Transmeta Corporation and VIA, among others. Our server processors compete with software-compatible products offered by AMD and with established products based on rival architectures, including those offered by Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM and Sun Microsystems, Inc. Our chipsets compete in the various market segments against different types of chipsets that support either our microprocessor products or rival microprocessor products. Competing chipsets are produced by companies such as ATI Technologies, Inc., Broadcom, NVIDIA, Silicon Integrated Systems Corporation (SIS) and VIA. We also compete with companies offering graphics components and other special-purpose products used in the desktop, mobile and server market segments. One aspect of our business model is to incorporate higher performance and advanced features into the microprocessor and chipset, the demand for which may increasingly be affected by competition from companies (such as NVIDIA and ATI) whose business models are based on incorporating performance and advanced features into chipsets and other components (such as graphics controllers). 

 

Intel Communications Group 

 

Within ICG, our strategy is to be the leading supplier of silicon and integrated networking and communications building blocks for OEMs and other systems builders. We are developing products that we believe will help to build out the Internet: products designed for wired and wireless connectivity, communications infrastructure and networked storage. In these areas, we face competition from both established and emerging companies. Our products currently compete against offerings from companies such as Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Broadcom, Globespan Virata, Inc., IBM, Marvell Technology Co. Ltd. and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Intel and many of our competitors acquire alternative technologies and products from other companies in an effort to achieve leading-edge market segment positions. Certain market segments in which ICG may compete, such as networking and telecommunications products, have experienced an overall economic decline. These market conditions have resulted in increased competition for the remaining available business opportunities. We cannot predict whether our networking and communications products will continue to compete successfully with those of our existing competitors or new market entrants. 

 

13 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
Wireless Communications and Computing Group 

 

Within WCCG, our current products include flash memory, application and cellular processors based on the Intel XScale microarchitecture, and cellular baseband chipsets. In our various market segments, our products currently compete with the products of other companies, such as FASL LLC (a joint venture between Fujitsu Limited and AMD), QUALCOMM, Samsung Semiconductor Inc., ST Microelectronics Group and Texas Instruments. The megabit demand of the products that make use of flash memory is increasing, and our NOR flash memory products may face increased competition from companies that manufacture NAND flash products, as OEMs may look for opportunities to use NAND flash products with additional random access memory or in combination with NOR flash memory for executable-code applications. Various digital cellular technologies are used throughout the cellular communications industry, including but not limited to GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications), GPRS (General Packet Radio Service), CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) and WCDMA (Wideband CDMA). Our ability to compete successfully with our cellular baseband chipsets is dependent on having products available for the most prevalent or widely adopted digital cellular technology. Our current product offerings are for use in cell phones and PDAs that incorporate the GSM/GPRS cellular technologies. Our products planned for release in 2004 will be targeted for the WCDMA as well as GSM/GPRS cellular technologies. 

 

Research and Development  

 

Our continued emphasis on research and development (R&D) has enabled us to be a leader in our industry, particularly in the area of the design and manufacture of integrated circuits. Much of our R&D efforts have been centered on accelerating the convergence of computing and communications, primarily through silicon integration as well as through industry collaboration, enabling us to deliver leading-edge technologies and permitting our customers to commit to the use of these new technologies in the development and expansion of their own product offerings. Specifically, our R&D activities are directed toward developing new silicon-level products and architectures; advanced computing, communications and wireless technologies; and new manufacturing, packaging and testing processes; as well as improving existing products and lowering costs. In addition, we believe we are well positioned in the technology industry to help drive innovation, foster collaboration and promote industry standards that will yield innovative and improved technologies for end users. 

 

Our R&D model is based on a global, decentralized organization that emphasizes a collaborative approach in identifying and developing new technologies, leading standards initiatives and influencing regulatory policy to accelerate the adoption of new technologies. Our Corporate Technology Group (CTG) strives to align our R&D initiatives across our business groups to meet our long-term goals. In addition, CTG works with a decentralized worldwide network of researchers, scientists and engineers in the computing and communications fields. A decentralized network of technology professionals allows us, as well as others in our industry, to benefit from development initiatives in a variety of areas, eventually leading to innovative technologies for end users. We view technology standards as an important way to advance new technologies and foster industry infrastructures or ecosystems. We therefore work with industry, government and education sectors in various areas to help establish technology standards, ultimately incorporating many of these standards into our own product offerings. 

 

We perform a substantial majority of our design and development of semiconductor components and other products in the U.S. Outside the U.S., we have been increasing our product development activities at various locations, including Israel, Malaysia, India, China and Russia. We also maintain R&D facilities in the U.S. that are focused on developing and improving manufacturing processes, as well as facilities in the U.S., Malaysia and the Philippines that are dedicated to improvements in assembly and test processes. 

 

As devices take advantage of converged computing and communications capabilities, our goal is to continue to deliver processors with higher performance and/or advanced technology features such as HT Technology and features offered with our Intel Centrino mobile technology. During 2003, we expanded HT Technology from our server product lines to our desktop and mobile transportable product lines. We also continued R&D activities in support of Intel Centrino mobile technology. In September 2003, we announced our intention to introduce a new mobile platform, based on Intel Centrino mobile technology, in the second half of 2004. This new mobile platform is expected to incorporate a future version of the Pentium M processor and a new chipset, as well as integrate 802.11 a/b/g wireless LAN capability, enabling faster wireless communications and support for industry-standard security solutions. 

 

In addition to the multithreading or multitasking capability found in HT Technology and the enhanced mobile computing features offered with Intel Centrino mobile technology, we believe that system security, reliability and manageability features at the hardware level will provide an enhanced computing experience for end users, and we are currently working on new technologies to meet these needs. We are designing technology intended to provide future security enhancements for our processors, chipsets and platforms. This technology, when combined with optimized software, will help protect against software-based attacks on computer systems. We are also 

 

14 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
designing technology intended to enable multiple, independent software environments in a single PC, improving the end-user experience by increasing system reliability, flexibility and responsiveness, as well as speeding the ability to recover from computer crashes. 

 

We believe that technology-industry product developments and the convergence of computing and communications should increase demand for our higher performance enterprise platform products. In particular, we anticipate increased demand for our products to support new developments in data traffic management, storage, and wireless computing and communications needs. In line with this belief, we continued our development initiatives around enterprise platform products, and in September 2003, we disclosed details of an upcoming Intel Xeon processor that will contain a dual core on one chip (two microprocessors on the same chip). We also plan to make the Intel Itanium 2 processor available with multiple cores. 

 

Our leadership in silicon technology has allowed us to continue to help extend “Moore’s Law” (doubling the number of transistors on a chip every couple of years), increasing performance while reducing manufacturing costs, and also to help expand Moore’s Law, bringing new capabilities into silicon and producing new products optimized for a wider variety of applications. We are currently manufacturing microprocessors using the 90-nanometer process technology. Our 90-nanometer process technology combines the use of strained silicon and copper interconnects that have integrated advanced materials (carbon-doped oxide dielectric material). By using strained silicon, electrical current is able to flow more smoothly, increasing the speed of transistors. The copper interconnects integrated with these advanced materials allow for increased signal speed and reduced power consumption. We also continue to work on incorporating communications capabilities into our 90-nanometer manufacturing process. These capabilities include the use of high-speed transistors and “mixed-signal” circuitry, aimed at producing faster, more integrated and less costly communications chips. In 2003, we announced plans to convert and build manufacturing facilities to begin development of our next-generation 65-nanometer manufacturing process. We expect to begin manufacturing products using 65-nanometer process technology in 2005. 

 

We also have R&D initiatives in other wireless, networking and communications product areas. For wireless devices, we have development projects surrounding the Intel PCA architecture. The Intel PCA architecture is our development blueprint for designing wireless handheld communications devices that combine voice communications and Internet access capabilities. Development initiatives around Intel PCA include processor design based on the Intel XScale technology, digital signal processing core development, improved packaging formats and other communications intellectual property. In the longer term, our wireless R&D efforts are anticipated to encompass a wide array of activities ranging from RF (radio frequency) circuit and adaptive radio architecture designs to global communications standards advocacy and regulatory policy reform. These efforts seek to help make wireless connectivity ubiquitous by integrating radio capability into our processors and chipsets. 

 

For networking and communications products, we have focused our development efforts on wireless technologies based on new generations of 802.11 industry standards, and these efforts have led to higher performance Ethernet connectivity products. We are working to develop silicon based on the IEEE 802.16d standard (also called WiMAX), which is a wireless broadband access technology that links WLAN/WiFi hotspots, provides broadband wireless connectivity to businesses and homes, and is expected to enable broadband wireless access as an alternative to existing “last mile” methods such as cable and digital subscriber lines (DSL). We also have development initiatives focusing on 802.11n, a next-generation WLAN technology that is expected to enable approximately three times the performance of current 802.11 solutions. Finally, our efforts in network and communications initiatives have led to higher performance network processors based on the Intel XScale technology, modular communications building blocks that reduce development costs and time for network systems developers, and standardized optical components and modules for reduced power consumption and cost. 

 

In addition, we are working to bring advanced silicon technologies to consumer electronics. We are currently developing a new technology based on a technique called Liquid Crystal on Silicon (LCOS). LCOS is used to create small chips called micro-displays that produce images that are displayed on large-screen, rear-projection televisions. 

 

Our R&D on both processes and products may involve current-generation activities as well as development of process and product roadmaps extending into the future for successive generations. Our manufacturing process work, particularly for future process technology generations, typically involves substantial experimentation, invention and evaluation relating to numerous aspects of manufacturing capability. To varying degrees, these efforts rely on the work of third parties such as university researchers and manufacturers of semiconductor factory equipment. Our process development work may involve alternative and competing technologies, and, for technological or other business reasons, not all of our efforts will result in technology that we deploy in our manufacturing operations. 

 

From time to time, we may terminate product development before completion or decide not to manufacture and sell a developed product. We do not expect that all of our product development projects will result in products that are ultimately released for sale. For a 

 

15 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
variety of reasons, we may decide not to move forward with a particular product. For example, we may decide that the product might not be sufficiently competitive in the relevant market segment, or for technological or marketing reasons, we may decide to offer a different product instead. Our products often incorporate features that will only increase the product’s performance or be otherwise useful to the end user if other companies have developed operating systems, other software applications or other hardware that take advantage of these features. We continue to work with other hardware and software companies and industry groups to encourage the development of product offerings designed to take advantage of our products’ features. 

 

We continue our commitment to invest in leading-edge technology development. Our expenditures for R&D were $4,360 million in fiscal 2003, $4,034 million in fiscal 2002 and $3,796 million in fiscal 2001. Additionally, we incurred charges for purchased in-process R&D related to acquisitions of $5 million for fiscal 2003, $20 million for fiscal 2002 and $198 million for fiscal 2001. While we held the total number of employees flat, we increased the number of our employees engaged in R&D to approximately 23,000 at December 2003 compared to approximately 21,000 at December 2002. 

 

Acquisitions and Strategic Investments 

 

The level of new acquisition and strategic investment activity for 2003 and 2002 was substantially lower than in prior years. During 2003, we completed one acquisition for total consideration of $21 million. We also acquired one development-stage operation in exchange for total consideration of approximately $40 million. 

 

Under our Intel Capital program, we make equity investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. The Intel Capital program focuses on investing in companies and initiatives to stimulate growth in the Internet economy and its infrastructure, create new business opportunities for Intel, and expand global markets for our products. The investments may support, among other things, Intel product initiatives, emerging trends in the technology industry or worldwide Internet deployment. This strategic investment program helps advance our overall mission to be the preeminent supplier of building blocks to the worldwide Internet economy. Many of our investments are in private companies, including development-stage companies with little or no revenue from current product offerings. 

 

We invest in companies that develop software, hardware and other technologies or provide services supporting our technologies. Our current investment focus areas include: enabling mobile and Internet client devices, helping to create the digital home, advancing high-performance communications infrastructures and developing the next generation of silicon production technologies. Our focus areas tend to develop and change over time due to rapid advancements in technology. 

 

Intellectual Property and Licensing 

 

Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products and services include patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and maskwork rights. We maintain an active program to protect our investment in technology by enforcing our intellectual property rights. The extent of the legal protection given to different types of intellectual property rights varies under different countries’ legal systems. We intend to license our intellectual property rights broadly where we can obtain adequate consideration. See “Competition” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 

 

We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the U.S. and abroad. While our patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any one patent. We and other companies in the computing, telecommunications and related high-technology fields typically apply for and receive, in the aggregate, thousands of patents annually in the U.S. and other countries. We believe that the duration of the applicable patents we are granted is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Because of the fast pace of innovation and product development, our products are often obsolete before the patents related to them expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the patents related to them are even granted. As we expand our product offerings into new industries, such as consumer electronics, we extend our patent development efforts to patent such product offerings. Established competitors in these industries may already have patents covering similar products, and while our patents in adjacent technology areas may serve to deter some claims of infringement, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents covering our own products, or that we will be able to obtain cross licenses from such competitors on favorable terms or at all. 

 

The software embedded in our component and system-level products is entitled to copyright protection. Under some circumstances, we may require our customers to obtain a software license before we provide them with that software. 

 

To distinguish genuine Intel products from our competitors’ products, we have obtained certain trademarks and trade names for our products, and we maintain cooperative advertising programs with OEMs to promote our brands and identify products containing genuine Intel components. 

 

16 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
We also protect certain details about our processes, products and strategies as trade secrets, keeping confidential the information that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. We have ongoing programs designed to maintain the confidentiality of such information. 

 

Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses and other intellectual property is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of various intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us. Like many companies in the semiconductor and other high-technology industries, we receive claims that we may be infringing others’ intellectual property rights. In addition, our sales agreements often contain intellectual property indemnities, such as patent and copyright indemnities, and our customers may assert claims against us for indemnity when they receive claims alleging that our customers’ products infringe others’ intellectual property rights. When we receive such claims, we refer them to our counsel, and current claims are in various stages of evaluation and negotiation. If we determine that it is necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for certain intellectual property rights. However, we can give no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses from any claimant, or that we can accept the terms of any offered licenses. Further, we are not able to resolve every dispute without litigation, which is typically time-consuming and expensive. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay material amounts of damages. See also the information under the heading “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. 

 

Compliance with Environmental, Health and Safety Regulations 

 

Intel is committed to achieving high standards of environmental quality and product safety, and strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors and the communities in which we do business. We have environmental, health and safety (EHS) policies and expectations that are applied to our global operations. Each of Intel’s worldwide manufacturing and assembly/test sites is certified to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 environmental management system standard, which requires that a broad range of environmental processes and policies be in place to minimize environmental impact and maintain compliance with environmental regulations. Intel’s internal environmental auditing program includes not only compliance components, but also modules on business risk, environmental excellence and management systems. We have internal processes that focus on minimizing and properly managing any hazardous materials used in our facilities and products. We monitor regulatory trends and set company-wide short- and long-term performance targets for key resources and emissions. These targets address several parameters, including energy and water use, climate change, waste recycling and emissions. Intel remains on track to achieve our voluntary commitment to, by 2010, reduce emissions of certain global warming gases by 10% from 1995 levels. Due to Intel’s increase in manufacturing since 1995, this equates to an actual reduction in 2004 of more than 90% from what Intel would have emitted without the voluntary reduction. The company also has several key technologies designed to reduce energy use in our products and products using our components and recently added an energy reduction goal to its list of EHS performance indicators. For example, all Intel desktop processors produced in 2003 are capable of taking advantage of the advanced energy savings features of the Instantly Available PC platform, which makes it possible to have a high-performance, feature-rich PC that is power efficient when both active and idle, and remains connected to a network even when powered off. 

 

The manufacture, assembly and testing of Intel products requires the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of EHS laws and regulations. As Intel continues to advance process technology, the materials, technologies and products themselves become increasingly complex. Our evaluations of new materials for use in R&D, manufacturing, and assembly and test take into account EHS considerations and are a component of Intel’s design for EHS processes. Many new materials being evaluated for use may be subject to regulation under existing or future laws and regulations. Failure to comply with any of the applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of fabrication and assembly processes, curtailment of operations or sales, and legal liability. Intel’s failure to properly manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could subject the company to future liabilities. Existing or future laws and regulations could require Intel to procure pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur other expenses associated with the laws and regulations. In addition, restrictions on the use of certain materials in our facilities or products in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Compliance with these complex laws and regulations, as well as internal voluntary programs, is integrated into our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. To our knowledge, compliance with these laws and regulations has had no material effect upon our operations. We also refer to the information under the heading “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. 

 

17 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
Executive Officers of the Registrant 

 

The following sets forth certain information with regard to executive officers of Intel (ages are as of December 27, 2003): 

 

Andrew S. Grove (age 67) has been a director of Intel since 1974 and Chairman of the Board since 1997. Dr. Grove was Chief Executive Officer from 1987 to 1998, President from 1979 to 1997 and Chief Operating Officer from 1976 to 1987. 

 

Craig R. Barrett (age 64) has been a director of Intel since 1992 and Chief Executive Officer since 1998. Prior to that, Dr. Barrett was President from 1997 to 2002, Chief Operating Officer from 1993 to 1997 and Executive Vice President from 1990 to 1997. 

 

Paul S. Otellini (age 53) has been a director of Intel and President and Chief Operating Officer since 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Otellini was Executive Vice President and General Manager, Intel Architecture Group, from 1998 to 2002; Executive Vice President and General Manager, Sales and Marketing Group, from 1996 to 1998; and Senior Vice President and General Manager, Sales and Marketing Group, from 1993 to 1996. 

 

Andy D. Bryant (age 53) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Enterprise Services Officer since 2001, and was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial and Enterprise Services Officer from 1999 to 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Bryant was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1999, and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1994 to 1999. 

 

Sean M. Maloney (age 47) has been Executive Vice President and General Manager, Intel Communications Group, since 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Maloney was Executive Vice President and Director, Sales and Marketing Group, in 2001; Senior Vice President and Director, Sales and Marketing Group, from 1999 to 2001; Vice President and Director, Sales and Marketing Group, from 1998 to 1999; and Vice President, Sales, and General Manager, Asia-Pacific Operations, from 1995 to 1998. 

 

Robert J. Baker (age 48) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group, since 2001, and was Vice President and General Manager, Components Manufacturing, from 2000 to 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Baker managed Fab Sort Manufacturing from 1999 to 2000 and Microprocessor Components Manufacturing from 1996 to 1999. 

 

Sunlin Chou (age 57) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group, since 1998. Mr. Chou was Vice President, Technology and Manufacturing Group, from 1988 to 1998. 

 

F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr. (age 52) has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel since 2001, and was Vice President and General Counsel from 1987 to 2001. Mr. Dunlap served as Secretary from 1983 to 2002. 

 

Jason Chun Shen Chen (age 42) has been Vice President and Director, Sales and Marketing Group, since April 2003, and was Vice President and Co-General Manager of the Asia-Pacific Sales Region from 1999 to April 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Chen was Director of Distribution Sales for all of Asia-Pacific from 1997 to 1999. 

 

John H. F. Miner (age 48) has been a Vice President of Intel Corporation and President of Intel Capital since April 2003, and was Vice President and General Manager of Intel Capital from 2002 to April 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Miner was Vice President, New Business Group, from 2001 to April 2003; and Vice President and General Manager, Communications Products Group, from 1999 to 2001. 

 

Arvind Sodhani (age 49) has been Vice President and Treasurer since 1990. 

 

18 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
Corporate Governance 

 

Corporate governance is typically defined as the system that allocates duties and authority among a company’s stockholders, board of directors and management. The stockholders elect the board and vote on extraordinary matters; the board is the company’s governing body, responsible for hiring, overseeing and evaluating management, particularly the Chief Executive Officer (CEO); and management runs the company’s day-to-day operations. The Board believes that there should be a substantial majority of independent directors on the Board. The Board also believes that it is useful and appropriate to have members of management, including the Chief Executive Officer, as directors. 

 

The Board’s general policy, based on experience, is that the positions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer should be held by separate persons as an aid in the Board’s oversight of management. In addition, the Board has an independent director designated as the Lead Independent Director, who is responsible for coordinating the activities of the other independent directors and performs various other duties. The general authority and responsibilities of the Lead Independent Director are established in a written charter adopted by the Board. 

 

The current Board members include ten independent directors and three members of Intel’s senior management. The Board members include Craig R. Barrett, Intel’s Chief Executive Officer; Ambassador Charlene Barshefsky, Senior International Partner at the Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering law firm; E. John P. Browne, Group Chief Executive of BP plc; Winston H. Chen, Chairman of Paramitas Foundation; Andrew S. Grove, Intel’s Chairman of the Board; D. James Guzy, Chairman of Arbor Company; Reed E. Hundt, Advisor to McKinsey and Company and Venture Partner of Benchmark Capital; Paul S. Otellini, Intel’s President and Chief Operating Officer; David S. Pottruck, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Charles Schwab Corporation; Jane E. Shaw, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Aerogen, Inc.; John L. Thornton, Professor and Director of Global Leadership at Tsinghua University, Beijing, China; David B. Yoffie, Professor of International Business Administration, Harvard Business School; and Charles E. Young, President Emeritus of the University of Florida and Chancellor Emeritus of the University of California at Los Angeles. Messrs. Chen and Young are not standing for reelection at the next Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Board also has two Directors Emeriti, Gordon E. Moore and Leslie L. Vadasz, who may participate in Board meetings but do not vote. 

 

“Independent” Directors.  Each of the company’s directors other than Messrs. Grove, Barrett and Otellini qualify as “independent” in accordance with the published listing requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ)*. The NASDAQ independence definition includes a series of objective tests, such as that the director is not an employee of the company and has not engaged in various types of business dealings with the company. In addition, as further required by the NASDAQ rules, the Board of Directors has made a subjective determination as to each independent director that no relationships exist which, in the opinion of the Board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director. In making these determinations, the directors reviewed and discussed information provided by the directors and the company with regard to each director’s business and personal activities as they may relate to Intel and Intel’s management. 

 

In addition, the members of the Audit Committee of the Board also each qualify as “independent” under special standards established by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for members of audit committees, and the Audit Committee includes at least one member who is determined by the Board to meet the qualifications of an “audit committee financial expert” in accordance with SEC rules, including that the person meets the relevant definition of an “independent” director. E. John P. Browne is the independent director who has been determined to be an audit committee financial expert. Stockholders should understand that this designation is a disclosure requirement of the SEC related to Mr. Browne’s experience and understanding with respect to certain accounting and auditing matters. The designation does not impose on Mr. Browne any duties, obligations or liability that are greater than are generally imposed on him as a member of the Audit Committee and Board of Directors, and his designation as an audit committee financial expert pursuant to this SEC requirement does not affect the duties, obligations or liability of any other member of the Audit Committee or Board of Directors. 

 

Board Responsibilities and Structure.  The primary responsibilities of the Board of Directors are oversight, counseling and direction to Intel’s management in the long-term interests of Intel and its stockholders. The Board’s detailed responsibilities include: (a) selecting, regularly evaluating the performance of, and approving the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives; (b) planning for succession with respect to the position of Chief Executive Officer and monitoring management’s succession planning for other senior executives; (c) reviewing and, where appropriate, approving Intel’s major financial objectives, strategic and operating plans and actions; (d) overseeing the conduct of Intel’s business to evaluate whether the business is being properly managed; and (e) overseeing the processes for maintaining Intel’s integrity with regard to its financial statements and other public disclosures and compliance with law and ethics. The Chief Executive Officer, working with Intel’s other executive officers, has the authority and responsibility for managing Intel’s business in a manner consistent with Intel’s standards and practices, and in 

 

19 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
accordance with any specific plans, instructions or directions of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer and management are responsible for seeking the advice and, in appropriate situations, the approval of the Board with respect to extraordinary actions to be undertaken by Intel. 

 

The Board and its committees meet throughout the year on a set schedule, and also hold special meetings and act by written consent from time to time as appropriate. Board agendas include regularly scheduled sessions for the independent directors to meet without management present, and the Board’s Lead Independent Director leads those sessions. The Board has delegated various responsibilities and authority to different Board committees as generally described below. Committees regularly report on their activities and actions to the full Board. Board members have access to all Intel employees outside of Board meetings, and the Board has a program that encourages each director to visit different Intel sites and events worldwide on a regular basis and meet with local management at those sites and events. 

 

Board Committees and Charters.  The Board currently has, and appoints the members of, standing Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance, Executive, Finance and Nominating Committees. Each member of the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees is an independent director in accordance with NASDAQ standards described above. Each of the Board committees has a written charter approved by the Board. Copies of each charter, including the charter describing the position of Lead Independent Director, are posted on the company’s web site at www.intc.com under the “Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility” section. 

 

The Audit Committee assists the Board in its general oversight of Intel’s financial reporting, internal controls and audit functions, and is directly responsible for the appointment, retention, compensation and oversight of the work of Intel’s independent auditors. 

 

The Compensation Committee reviews and approves salaries, equity incentives and other matters relating to executive compensation, and administers Intel’s stock option plans, including reviewing and granting stock options to executive officers. The Compensation Committee also reviews and approves various other company compensation policies and matters. 

 

The Corporate Governance Committee reviews and reports to the Board on a periodic basis with regard to matters of corporate governance. The Corporate Governance Committee also reviews and assesses the effectiveness of the Board’s Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues and recommends to the Board proposed revisions to the Guidelines. In addition, the Corporate Governance Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the agenda for Intel’s annual stockholders’ meetings, reviews stockholder proposals and makes recommendations to the Board for action on such proposals. 

 

The Executive Committee may exercise the authority of the Board between Board meetings, except to the extent that the Board has delegated authority to another committee or to other persons, and except as limited by Delaware law. 

 

The Finance Committee reviews and recommends matters related to Intel’s capital structure, including the issuance of debt and equity securities; Intel’s dividend policy and dividend declarations; banking arrangements, including investment of corporate cash; and management of the corporate debt structure. In addition, the Finance Committee reviews and approves structured finance and other cash management transactions whose authorization is not otherwise approved by the Board or delegated to Intel’s management. 

 

The Nominating Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the size and composition of the Board. The Nominating Committee is responsible for reviewing with the Board from time to time the appropriate skills and characteristics required of Board members in the context of the current make-up of the Board. This assessment includes issues of diversity in numerous factors such as age; understanding of and experience in manufacturing, technology, finance and marketing; and international experience and culture. These factors, and others as considered useful by the Committee, are reviewed in the context of an assessment of the perceived needs of the Board at a particular point in time. As a result, the priorities and emphasis of the Committee and of the Board may change from time to time to take into account changes in business and other trends, and the portfolio of skills and experience of current and prospective Board members. The Nominating Committee establishes procedures for the nomination process, recommends candidates for election to the Board and also nominates officers for election by the Board. Consideration of new Board nominee candidates typically involves a series of internal discussions, review of information concerning candidates and interviews with selected candidates. Candidates for nomination to the Board typically are suggested by Board members or by employees. With regard to the company’s newest directors, Ambassador Barshefsky was initially suggested as a candidate by an executive officer of the company, and Mr. Thornton was initially suggested as a candidate by a non-management director. In 2003, the company did not employ a search firm or pay fees to other third parties in connection with seeking or evaluating Board nominee candidates. The Nominating Committee will consider candidates proposed by stockholders, and has from time to time received unsolicited candidate proposals from stockholders. Candidates proposed by stockholders are evaluated by the Committee using the same criteria as for other candidates. 

 

20 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
Board members also sit on the Investment Policy Committee for Intel’s U.S. employee retirement plans. This committee includes Intel management representatives, and is responsible for adopting and amending investment policies as well as selecting and monitoring service providers for the plans. The committee also selects the investment alternatives offered under Intel’s 401(k) Savings Plan. 

 

Attendance at Board, Committee and Annual Stockholders’ Meetings.  All directors are expected to attend each meeting of the Board and the committees on which he or she serves, and are also expected to attend the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. 

 

The Board does not have a formal policy that seeks to limit the number of board seats held by an independent director, but the Board’s guideline of 100% attendance at meetings reflects the Board’s expectation that each director will meet his or her commitments to the position. The time commitments of directors vary substantially with regard to their individual involvement with their primary positions; their involvement with other commercial, charitable and other organizations; and otherwise. The Board believes that a limitation on board seats held by a director will not adequately express the key functional point about the director’s time commitment to Intel. 

 

Intel has a policy, and an approval process, that generally limits each employee to serving on no more than one company board as a personal, non-Intel activity. The approval process considers both the time commitment involved and the potential for business conflicts between Intel and the other company. This policy is applicable to Intel’s three management directors and its other officers. 

 

Corporate Governance Guidelines.  The Board has adopted a set of Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues, and the Board’s Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the Guidelines and reporting and making recommendations to the Board concerning corporate governance matters. The Guidelines are posted on the company’s web site at www.intc.com under the “Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility” section. Among other matters, the Guidelines include the following items concerning the Board of Directors: 

 

  • The Board believes that there should be a substantial majority of independent directors on the Board. The Board’s general policy, based on experience, is that the positions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer should be held by separate persons as an aid in the Board’s oversight of management. The Board has an independent director designated as Lead Independent Director, who is responsible for coordinating the activities of the other independent directors and performs various other duties.  

 

  • Independent directors meet on a regular basis apart from other Board members and management representatives, and the Lead Independent Director is responsible for setting the agenda and running the meetings.  

 

  • All directors stand for reelection every year.  

 

  • The Board has adopted a retirement policy for officers and directors. Under the policy, independent directors may not stand for reelection after age 72, and management directors, other than former Chief Executive Officers, may not stand for reelection after age 65. Following Dr. Barrett’s tenure, the Chief Executive Officer may continue as CEO no later than the annual meeting at which the person is age 60; however, a former CEO may continue to be employed by the company in another capacity beyond that time, including until age 72 as a director and as Chairman of the Board. Other Corporate Officers may continue as such no later than age 65.  

 

  • Board compensation should be a mix of cash and equity-based compensation. Management directors will not be paid for Board membership in addition to their regular employee compensation. Independent directors may not receive consulting, advisory or other compensatory fees from the company in addition to their Board compensation. To the extent practicable, independent directors who are affiliated with the company’s service providers will undertake to ensure that their compensation from such providers does not include amounts connected to payments by the company.  

 

  • Members of the Board must act at all times in accordance with the requirements of Intel’s Corporate Business Principles, which are applicable to each director in connection with his or her activities relating to Intel. This obligation includes adherence to Intel’s policies with respect to conflicts of interest, confidentiality, protection of Intel’s assets, ethical conduct in business dealings, and respect for and compliance with applicable law. Any waiver of the requirements of the Corporate Business Principles with respect to any individual director or executive officer is reported to, and subject to the approval of, the Board of Directors.  

 

 

21 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Index to Financial Statements
  • The Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees consist entirely of independent directors.  

 

  • The annual cycle of agenda items for Board meetings is expected to change on a periodic basis to reflect Board requests and changing business and legal issues. The Board will have regularly scheduled presentations from Finance, Sales and Marketing, and the major business segments and operations of the company. The Board’s annual agenda will include, among other items, the long-term strategic plan for the company, capital projects, budget matters and management succession.  

 

  • The Board has access to contact and meet with any Intel employee. The Board has a program for members, when traveling, to make arrangements in advance to visit Intel sites and meet with local management and other employees on a worldwide basis.  

 

  • The Chief Executive Officer reports at least annually to the Board on succession planning and management development.  

 

  • At least annually, the Board evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management personnel.  

 

  • The Board has a process whereby the Board and its members are subject to periodic self-evaluation and self-assessment.  

 

  • The Board works with management to schedule new-director orientation programs and director continuing education programs. The orientation programs are designed to familiarize new directors with the company’s businesses, strategies and challenges, and to assist new directors in developing and maintaining skills necessary or appropriate for the performance of their responsibilities. Continuing education programs for Board members may include a mix of in-house and third-party presentations and programs.  

 

Directors and officers are encouraged to be stockholders of the company through their participation in the company’s stock option and employee stock participation plans. Stock ownership guidelines have been established by the Board of Directors for independent directors and corporate officers to better ensure that they each maintain an equity stake in the company, and by doing so appropriately link their interests with those of the other stockholders. These guidelines provide that, within a five-year period following appointment or election, the covered individuals should attain and hold an investment position (not including unexercised stock options) of no less than a specified number of shares of Intel stock (for officers, approximating three to five times the sum of their base salary and annual incentive target, depending on the individual’s scope of responsibilities, and a similar guideline for independent directors). Directors and officers may not invest in (purchase or otherwise receive, or write) derivatives of Intel securities, e.g., puts and calls on Intel securities (with limited exceptions) or enter into any “short sales” or “short positions” with respect to Intel securities. A short position is one in which the person will profit if the market price of Intel securities either remains the same or decreases. Intel considers it inappropriate and contrary to the interests of Intel and its stockholders for directors and officers to take investment positions when the person would obtain a personal benefit in such a case. 

 
