Item 1.   Business


GENERAL

     We are a systems oriented designer and manufacturer of analog and digital
integrated circuits and discrete semiconductors for the communications and power
management end-user markets. The majority of our revenue is derived from sales
of our analog and mixed-signal products. We use our proprietary technologies and
design capabilities to provide systems solutions for rapidly growing wireless
applications. We own over 1,250 patents and have substantial expertise in the
design and manufacturing of components that perform many of the essential
functions relating to the supply, distribution and regulation of electric power
in electronic products. Our core competencies include the design of analog,
mixed-signal, digital signal processing, radio frequency and discrete power
semiconductor products. Our products include components performing complex
communications functions, such as our PRISM(R) chip sets for wireless data
communications, digital radios and high speed converters in cellular base
stations and power management integrated circuits and discrete semiconductors
used in Internet servers and computers. We were formed on August 13, 1999
through a series of transactions in which we and a wholly-owned subsidiary
acquired the semiconductor business of Harris Corporation, or Harris.

OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY

     We provide systems level solutions for the growing integrated
communications semiconductor market. Integrated communications semiconductors
enable the convergence of voice, data and video communications. Within
integrated communications, we are focused on several key markets including high
data rate wireless connectivity, power management and communications integrated
circuits for wireless and wired communications infrastructure. We use our
expertise in digital and analog semiconductors and radio and software design in
order to deliver chip sets, components, software and licensable application
designs for communications equipment customers. For fiscal year 2000, we
allocated about 92% of our research and development investment to the
development of products for the integrated communications market.

     Our business strategy emphasizes the following key elements:

     o Focus on High Growth, Integrated Communications Markets.  In light of the
       rapid expansion of communication applications and the increased
       requirement for power management in electronic systems, we focus our
       investments in these areas. We believe these markets have attractive
       growth characteristics and enable us to draw on our core competencies.
       Accordingly, we are pursuing opportunities in communications, wireless
       and power management.

     o Maintain Technology Leadership.  We focus our research and development
       investments on integrated communications. We have 220 engineers working
       on innovative wireless and power management architectures. We also have
       significant experience in analog and mixed-signal process technology and
       high volume manufacturing. In conjunction with these efforts, we will
       continue to expand our strong intellectual property position by seeking
       to increase our existing portfolio of over 1,250 patents.

     o Provide Systems Level Solutions to Our Customers.  We design and develop
       our semiconductors with a systems level approach that we believe enhances
       the value of our products as they are designed into and incorporated in
       our customers' electronic systems. This approach yields early integration
       of our products into our customers' products, provides opportunities for
       current design wins, and ultimately increases revenue as our solutions
       are incorporated within a targeted end application.

     o Focus on Partnering with Industry Leaders.  We partner with industry
       leaders in each of our target end-user markets to take our strong
       engineering and design capabilities to commercial levels. Our customer
       base of industry leaders illustrates the acceptance of our products to
       date, and we continue to partner with these customers and others to
       develop and market our next generation products. Our applications and
       design engineers support our customers' end product development.

     o Maintain High Quality Customer Service.  Quality customer service is
       critical to our customer retention and sales growth. Through our customer
       relations initiatives, we believe we distinguish ourselves from our
       competitors. Additionally, our sales force and authorized representatives
       and distributors provide customer information programs and support our
       comprehensive customer service efforts.


                                       4
<PAGE>

PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY

     Our products are organized into three principal product groups: Analog &
Mixed-Signal, Discrete Power and Wireless.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               ANALOG &                   DISCRETE
                                             MIXED-SIGNAL                  POWER                  WIRELESS
                                      --------------------------  ------------------------  ---------------------
<S>                                   <C>                         <C>                       <C>
FISCAL YEAR 2000 REVENUES...........  $396.8 million              $205.9 million            $51.5 million

PERCENTAGE OF REVENUES..............  60.7%                       31.4%                     7.9%

KEY CUSTOMERS.......................  Cisco                       Asustek                   Cisco
                                      Compaq                      Bosch                     Nokia
                                      Dell                        Compaq                    Siemens
                                      Intel                       Emerson                   Sony
                                      Siemens                                               3Com
</TABLE>

ANALOG & MIXED-SIGNAL

     Our Analog & Mixed-Signal portfolio represented 60.7% of our fiscal year
2000 revenue. We deliver leading-edge analog, mixed-signal and digital signal
processing semiconductors and groups of semiconductors that are designed to work
together, also known as chip set solutions, for today's fastest-growing
communications markets. Our design focus targets such opportunities as wired
networks, subscriber line interface circuits, or SLICs, which interface analog
and digital signals for telecom systems, and high-speed digital radios for
cellular basestations. The two analog product lines include the following:

     Signal Processing Products.  We have a portfolio of linear, mixed-signal
and digital signal processing integrated circuits optimized for high-speed
communications applications. Communications analog and mixed-signal integrated
circuits are primarily targeted at wired and wireless voice and data
communications infrastructure applications. We have developed a complete
portfolio of digital radio signal processing products and a line of 8-, 12- and
14-bit high speed data acquisition converter integrated circuits for cellular
basestations, wireless data links, wireless local loop and broadband wireless
access, which we refer to as the wireless infrastructure market. These products,
designated CommLink(TM), enable our customers to increase the amount of data
that can be transmitted, enabling the addition of high speed data transmission
to cellular communications networks. These integrated circuits enable faster
wireless data links between remote basestations and also enable more efficient
cable "headends"--the ground station for the satellite links and broadband
wireless access--which is sometimes called Wireless Cable or LMDS. Our products
support cellular standards including 2G Digital such as IS-95 CDMA and GSM, 2.5G
such as Edge and IS-95+, and 3G such as Wideband CDMA. We utilize both systems
level engineering and integrated circuit expertise to offer superior products
for wireless communications systems. This combination of expertise enabled us to
introduce the industry's first digital signal processing-based single chip, the
HSP50016, which increased the efficiency of signal chain implementation through
component reductions. We continue that leadership with the HSP50216 Quad
programmable down converter for use in 2.5G cellular basestation designs.

     New generations of high performance digital signal processing
communications integrated circuits require ever increasing performance from the
analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog converters that convert between digital
signals and analog radio frequency signals for wireless applications. We
currently market a family of 6- to 14-bit, CMOS analog-to-digital and
digital-to-analog converters in multiple speed ranges and functional
combinations in order to complement our digital radio wireless infrastructure
solutions.

     With more than 15 years of experience in their design and development, we
continue to expand our portfolio of SLICs. SLICs, which are used in many
telephone applications, serve two primary functions. First, they interface
analog voice signals with digital processors. Second, they serve the simple, yet
essential, function of ringing a telephone to signal an incoming call. Recently,
we introduced an advanced ringing SLIC, which combined both functions into a
single SLIC. Thus, the ringing SLIC acts as both an interface into the telephone
and also rings the telephone. Our newest ringing SLIC product, a voice over
internet protocol, or VoIP, product, enables the use of analog phones in the
emerging Internet telephony market. Our SLIC portfolio of advanced telecom
linecard solutions are ideal for today's universal telecom exchange



                                       5
<PAGE>

systems, including Plain Old Telephone Service, or POTS, Private Branch
Exchanges, Central Office, Loop Carrier, Fiber in the Loop and Wireless Local
Loop.

     Included in our legacy base product portfolio are operational amplifiers,
which are referred to as op amps, interface integrated circuits, industrial and
video integrated circuits and digital products which serve both defense and
commercial systems, with microprocessor, memory and data communications
products. These products typically have long life cycles and are designed into
our customers' products. These include the industry standard BiCMOS high speed
op amp and the low power instrumentation converter. This portfolio is sold to a
broad range of customers in industrial, medical, computer, avionics and test and
measurement instrumentation markets, primarily through distribution partners.
These products typically have long life cycles and are designed into our
customers' products thereby supporting long-term sales. Our end-user markets
include wireless communications, video and image processing, high-speed
satellite communications, test/measurement equipment and medical
instrumentation.

     We supply our communications products to Cisco, Dell, IBM, Lucent, Siemens
and other customers.

     Power Management Integrated Circuits.  We develop power system
architectures and provide a portfolio of computer products, file server/storage
system products, networking and VoIP products. Our power management products for
computing applications operate in a voltage range of 1 to 30 volts and are
designed into desktop personal computers, file servers and workstations. We have
also developed new power management circuits for 24x7 server networks supporting
e-commerce on the Internet.

     Our highly successful HIP6000 family of pulse width modulator controller
integrated circuits are used in about 30% of all personal computers that use
Pentium, Pentium II and Pentium III class processors. We are currently working
with motherboard manufacturers to have our pulse width modular controller
integrated circuits designed into motherboards utilizing the recently introduced
Pentium 4 processor. We expect to begin shipping products for Pentium 4
motherboards as Pentium 4 processors begin to ship in greater volumes in the
near term. Based on our current design wins, we believe that we also will have a
substantial share of the volume of pulse width modulator controller integrated
circuits used in motherboards utilizing Athlon processors.

     We have introduced an advanced architecture which delivers multiphase power
to higher speed microprocessors. This is a requirement for Intel and AMD
microprocessors above 800 MHz. This new platform of products consists of three
controllers (HIP6301, HIP6302 and HIP6303) and three gate drivers (HIP6601,
HIP6602 and HIP6603). We also offer a complete advanced configuration power
interface solution for instant on and sleep mode capability used to save energy
in personal computers.

     We provide complete power solutions for the file server and redundant array
of independent disks, or RAID, market. Internet growth, especially e-commerce,
is driving the need for high reliability/availability in these applications. Our
family of hot plug products allows repair and maintenance of a file server and
RAID without a complete shutdown of the file server.

     We are currently expanding our space-qualified portfolio by offering our
Starpower(TM) family of radiation hardened power management products for
commercial satellite applications. We are developing what we believe will be an
industry-leading radiation hardened DC/DC Converter power module line to provide
highly reliable power management in communications satellites. Our radiation
hardened integrated circuit product portfolio includes logic, memories, signal
processing components, microprocessors and custom devices, providing system
designers with a full complement of products for radiation hardened systems used
in commercial space and defense applications.

     Our power management integrated circuits are also used in industrial
control and automotive engine management systems.

     We supply our power management products to Asustek, Compaq, Dell, IBM,
Intel and other customers.



                                       6
<PAGE>

     DISCRETE POWER

     Our Discrete Power portfolio represented 31.4% of our revenue for fiscal
year 2000. Discrete Power products, coupled with our power management integrated
circuits, provide unique power management solutions for the integrated
communications market. Our metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors,
or MOSFETs have been designed in conjunction with our multiphase power
integrated circuits for faster, next generation computers. We also manufacture
efficient power MOSFETs used in servers supporting the Internet. We are
investing in new, efficient trench power devices for cellular phones and
portable information appliances.

     In 1980, we invented IGBTs, or insulated gate bipolar transistors, and hold
some of the fundamental patents that cover their production. We introduced our
600V SMPS, or switch mode power supply Series IGBT family of high-speed, high
efficiency IGBTs specifically tailored for operation in today's switched mode
power supplies. Our portfolio also includes radiation hardened N- and P-channel
metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors, or MOSFETs, for
high-reliability applications such as communications satellites.

     In addition, our IGBTs, MOSFETs and rectifiers are used in automotive and
industrial applications. These include motor management, automotive ignition,
welding, instrumentation and other industrial applications. Like our base analog
and mixed-signal products, our base power MOSFETs are designed into our
customers' products with life cycles spanning several years.

     We supply our Discrete Power products to Asustek, Bosch, Compaq, Emerson
and Siemens and other customers who use our products for personal computer
motherboard power, diesel fuel injection, body and chassis controls and
industrial power supplies.

     WIRELESS

     Our Wireless portfolio represented 7.9% of our revenue for fiscal year
2000. We are the leading developer of semiconductor solutions for the emerging
wireless local area networking market. Our PRISM(R) family of chip sets
addresses the growing demand for wireless networking for use in both the home
and business providing cost effective, wireless access to high data rate
broadband communications networks. We believe we are the only supplier of an
integrated wireless networking product solution, including reference designs,
software and all integrated circuits necessary for wireless data communications
at data rates of 11 megabits-per-second.

     The PRISM II chip set is composed of five highly integrated semiconductors.
They are the 2.4GHz power amplifier, RF/IF up and down converter, IF/BV
quadrature modulator/demodulator, baseband processor and the medium access
controller. These integrated circuits represent design and manufacturing
competence in radio frequency, or RF, mixed-signal and digital technologies. The
2.4GHz power amplifier, RF/IF up and down converter, and the quadrature
modular/demodulator are designed and manufactured using a high performance RF
silicon germanium process technology. The baseband processor and medium access
controller are designed and manufactured using submicron complementary metal
oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, process technologies.

     Because we design all of the components of our wireless chip set, including
reference designs and software, we believe we provide our customers with the
best available performance and value. Providing our customers with a turnkey
wireless data radio solution enables them to have the fastest time to market for
their systems which we believe is a critical competitive advantage in this
emerging market. More than 40 companies, including Cisco, Compaq, Nokia, Samsung
and Sony, have adopted use of the PRISM(R) chip set in their products. Our PRISM
II chip set is our second-generation chip set capable of delivering high-speed
wireless networking at data rates of 11 megabits-per-second. The PRISM II chip
set incorporates advanced integrated circuit design with silicon germanium
process technology which makes the PRISM II chip set five times faster while
reducing power consumption by 50% compared to the original PRISM(R) chip set.
Since the introduction of the PRISM II chip set, we have been developing
relationships with original equipment manufacturers, including Cisco, Compaq,
Nokia, Nortel, Siemens, Sony, Symbol and 3Com, for use of the PRISM II chip set
in a variety of wireless local area network applications for home and business.

     As of May 29, 2000, we acquired privately held No Wires Needed B.V., or
NWN, for 3.35 million shares of our Class A Common Stock. Based in Bilthoven,
The Netherlands, NWN provides high performance wireless-to-broadband access
point reference designs. NWN utilizes the PRISM(R) chip set together with its
own high data rate digital controller integrated circuits allowing end users to
wirelessly connect multiple computers and hand-held or Internet appliances to a
wired broadband network. NWN also provides wireless encryption software which
enhances the security of a wireless local area



                                       7
<PAGE>

network. Additionally, NWN has designed a high data rate digital controller
integrated circuit, which is a component we believe will enhance the performance
of future generations of our PRISM(R) chip set. The NWN digital integrated
circuit, which we refer to as a medium access controller, or MAC, is compliant
with the IEEE802.11b standard and can support data rates of up to 54
megabits-per second, which is vital for multi-channel voice and digital video in
homes and offices. The acquisition of NWN added 52 new employees.

CUSTOMERS AND APPLICATIONS

     We seek to capitalize on our core competencies by focusing on the
integrated communications market. Within the integrated communications market,
our products include communication integrated circuits, power management
semiconductors and PRISM(R) wireless local area network chip sets.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                           END MARKETS                       APPLICATIONS                    KEY CUSTOMERS
                     ------------------------   --------------------------------------    -------------------
<S>                  <C>                        <C>                                       <C>
Communications       Wireless local area        Wireless local area networks providing    Cisco, Compaq,
                     networks,                  network wireless access to broadband      Dell, IBM, Lucent,
                     communications,            (cable, ethernet, xDSL, ISDN)             Nokia, Nortel,
                     telecommunications         networks, video, wired and wireless       Samsung, Siemens,
                                                telephony, home gateways, networking      Sony, Symbol, 3Com

Power Management     Networking and computing   File servers, PC motherboards,            Asustek, Compaq,
                                                printers, workstations                    Dell, IBM, Intel
</TABLE>

     Outside of our targeted end markets, our remaining category is industrial
products. Applications in this category include automotive applications such as
fuel injection and ignition circuits, industrial applications including power
supplies and defense applications such as smart munitions and tactical and
strategic missiles. We sell to, among others, DaimlerChrysler, Siemens, Boeing,
Lockheed Martin and Emerson.

SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

     In fiscal years 2000 and 1999, we derived about 60% and 66%, respectively,
of our sales from original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers through our
global sales organizations and 40% and 34%, respectively, of our sales through
distributors. We operate sales organizations in the Americas, Europe and the
Asia/Pacific region. Our sales organizations are supported by logistics
organizations. Product orders flow to our manufacturing facilities or to one of
our foundries where the product is made. Products are then shipped to the
customer either directly or indirectly via our warehouses in the United States,
Europe and Asia.

     We have dedicated direct sales organizations operating in the Americas,
Europe and Asia/Pacific regions that serve our major OEM customers. We have
strategically located our sales offices near these major OEM customers. We also
have a large network of distributors and manufacturers' representatives to
distribute our products around the world. To serve our customer base, we
maintain a small, highly focused, direct sales force selling products for each
of our targeted product areas, combined with an extensive network of
distributors and manufacturers' representatives. Our sales force is segmented by
end-user markets, thereby ensuring each salesperson has an end-user market
expertise and focus. We also maintain a dedicated marketing organization, which
supports each product area on a regional basis.

     Typically, distributors handle a wide variety of products, including
products that compete with our products, and fill orders for many customers.
Some of our sales to distributors are made under agreements allowing for market
price fluctuations and/or the right of return on some unsold merchandise.
Virtually all distribution agreements contain an industry standard stock
rotation provision allowing for minimum levels of inventory returns. In our
experience, these inventory returns can usually be resold. Manufacturers'
representatives generally do not offer products that compete directly with our
products, but may carry complementary items manufactured by others.
Manufacturers' representatives do not maintain a product inventory; instead,
their customers place large quantity orders directly with us and are referred to
distributors for smaller orders.



                                       8
<PAGE>

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     We believe that the continued introduction of new products in our target
markets is essential to our growth. We believe that we must continue to
innovate, enhance and expand our products and services to maintain our
leadership position, and we intend to achieve this through in-house research and
development efforts and selective acquisitions. As of June 30, 2000, we had 571
employees engaged in research and development efforts. Our research and
development efforts are focused on new product development and improvements in
process technology in our growth areas of communications and power management.
For fiscal year 2000, we allocated about 92% of our research and development
investment towards development of products for the integrated communications
market.

     Our expenditures for research and development in fiscal years 1998, 1999
and 2000 were $75.1 million, $67.0 million and $78.0 million, respectively. Each
of our product areas maintains independent research and development
organizations. We work closely with our major customers in many research and
development situations to increase the likelihood that our products will be
designed directly into the customers' products and achieve rapid and lasting
market acceptance.

MANUFACTURING

     We fabricate wafers at three locations in the United States--Mountaintop,
Pennsylvania, Palm Bay, Florida, and Findlay, Ohio. We also use a number of
outside wafer fabrication foundries for the manufacture of device types where we
do not have the necessary technologies resident in house. We also utilize
advanced manufacturing processes of outside foundries for certain components of
our PRISM(R) products.

     We recently sold our principal assembly and test facility, located in Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia, to ChipPAC, Inc. and entered into a multi-year supply
agreement with ChipPAC under which the Malaysian facility became our preferred
provider of semiconductor assembly and test services. We also have limited
assembly and test capability in Palm Bay, Florida. We use a number of assembly
and test subcontractors for device types and packages that cannot be assembled
and tested at ChipPAC's facility in Kuala Lumpur.

     Our wafer fabs are among the most productive and efficient in the industry.
We believe we can continue to maintain competitive cost, further increase
productivity and enhance our process efficiency by investing in people and
assets, where necessary.

     We utilize an extensive set of manufacturing processes to fabricate our
products, including technologies such as: ULTRAFET(R), IGBT, BiCMOS, Power
BiCMOS, High Frequency Bipolar, CMOS and Rad Hard Processes. The table below
sets forth some information regarding our manufacturing facilities, products,
wafer diameter and annual wafer capacity:

                             FABRICATION FACILITIES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                 ANNUAL CAPACITY
      LOCATION                         PRODUCTS/FUNCTIONS                    WAFER DIAMETER     (6" EQUIVALENT WAFERS)
---------------------  --------------------------------------------------   ----------------    ---------------------------
<S>                    <C>                                                  <C>                 <C>
Mountaintop,           MOSFETs, IGBTs, rectifiers                                 6", 8"                  420,000
 Pennsylvania

Findlay, Ohio          Standard linear/interface integrated circuits,                 5"                  120,000
                       power integrated circuits

Palm Bay, Florida      Power integrated circuits, telecom SLICs, rad hard         4", 6"                  175,000
                       integrated circuits
</TABLE>



                                       9
<PAGE>

     Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon
wafers and various chemicals and gases. We obtain our raw materials and supplies
from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. Although supplies for
the raw materials used by us are currently adequate, shortages could occur in
various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in
the industry.

BACKLOG

     Our sales are made pursuant to purchase orders that are generally booked
from one to six months in advance of delivery. Backlog is influenced by several
factors including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction
to product lead times. Although quantities actually purchased by customers may
vary between booking and delivery to the extent customer needs or industry
conditions change, our backlog has historically been a reliable indicator of our
future revenues. Our backlog was about $188.5 million at July 3, 1998, $174.0
million at July 2, 1999 and $259.5 million at June 30, 2000. We expect to ship
the backlog at June 30, 2000 within twelve months of that date.

SEASONALITY

     A lower percentage of our products is sold to the computer end-user or into
the computer market than is sold by other semiconductor manufacturers. Sales in
the computer market fluctuate more than in other semiconductor markets. As a
result, we experience less seasonal fluctuation than the semiconductor industry
as a whole. Historically, our first quarter has been the weakest due to model
year changeovers in the automotive industry and summer holiday seasons,
primarily in Europe. Our increasing focus on integrated communications products
has resulted in a higher percentage of our sales coming from the communications
markets in the second half of our fiscal year. Sales made into the
communications market generally experience less seasonality than sales of our
historical mix of products.

COMPETITION

     We compete in different markets to various degrees on the basis of price,
technical performance, product features, product system compatibility,
customized design, availability, quality and sales and technical support. Our
ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of
our control, including successful and timely development of new products and
manufacturing processes, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields,
product availability, intellectual property protection obtained by us and our
competitors, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general economic
trends.

     The following chart sets forth our principal competitors by business unit:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
BUSINESS UNIT               PRINCIPAL COMPETITORS
--------------------------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                         <C>
Analog & Mixed-Signal       Analog Devices, Linear Technology, Semtech, Texas Instruments

Discrete Power              International Rectifier, STMicroelectronics, Vishay

Wireless                    Lucent, Philips, Texas Instruments
</TABLE>



                                       10
<PAGE>

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS

     We own rights to a number of trademarks and patents that are important to
our business. Among others, we consider Intersil, PRISM(R), ULTRAFET(R) and
CommLink to be trademarks that are material to our operations.

     Our corporate policy is to protect proprietary products by obtaining
patents for these products when practicable. We currently possess about 1,250
patents.

EMPLOYEES

     Our worldwide workforce consisted of 2,930 employees (full- and part-time)
as of June 30, 2000, of whom 730 were represented by collective bargaining
arrangements. Of our employees, 1,715 were engaged in manufacturing, 571 were
engaged in engineering, 394 were engaged in marketing and sales, 145 were
engaged in administration and 105 were engaged in operating our management
information systems. Of our employees, 1,786 were employed in the Analog &
Mixed-Signal area; 882 were employed in the Discrete Power area; and 262 were
employed in the Wireless area. We believe that our relations with our employees
are good.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Our operations are subject to environmental laws in the countries in which
we operate that regulate, among other things, air, ground and water emissions at
our manufacturing facilities; the management and disposal of hazardous
substances; and the investigation and remediation of environmental
contamination. As with other companies engaged in like businesses, the nature of
our operations exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities or claims. We
believe, however, that our operations are in substantial compliance with
applicable environmental requirements. Our costs to comply with environmental
regulations were about $6.3 million, $7.4 million and $4.8 million in each of
fiscal years 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively.

     Our facilities in Findlay, Ohio have ongoing remediation projects to
respond to releases of hazardous substances that occurred prior to the
acquisition of Harris' semiconductor business. Our facilities in Mountaintop,
Pennsylvania have groundwater and subsurface soil contamination from past
operations, some of which occurred prior to Harris' acquisition of those
facilities, for which remediation has been conducted, and additional remediation
may be required. In addition, Harris' facilities in Palm Bay, Florida, a portion
of which includes our business, are listed on the National Priorities List for
clean-up under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act ("Superfund"). Remediation activities are ongoing in Palm Bay in
accordance with consent decrees entered into by Harris with the United States
Environmental Protection Agency. Harris has agreed to indemnify us for the cost
of these projects at all of our facilities,



                                       11
<PAGE>

including at Findlay, Ohio, Mountaintop, Pennsylvania and Palm Bay, Florida and
our former facility at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia to the extent these costs exceed
financial reserve amounts at the time of our acquisition of the semiconductor
business of Harris. Based on the historical costs of these projects and because
the remediation projects are in advanced stages, we do not believe that the
future cleanup costs will be material, even without the indemnity.

     In connection with the closure of a waste storage pad at our former Kuala
Lumpur facility in Malaysia, a June 2000 environmental investigation identified
evidence of potential releases to the groundwater of hazardous substances that
were previously stored on the pad. Based on the composition of the groundwater
impacts, it appears that the hazardous substances were those used by Harris or
its predecessors, and not us. Harris has agreed to indemnify us for addressing
environmental conditions created prior to our ownership, and accordingly we put
Harris on notice of the potential environmental claim. We sold the business
which operates out of the Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia facility to ChipPAC in June
2000 (See Business--Manufacturing) and we gave ChipPAC a similar indemnity.
ChipPAC provided us with a claim for indemnification by letter dated August 1,
2000. We do not have adequate information to determine the extent of the impacts
to groundwater, but we do not believe future cleanup costs, if needed, will be
material, even without the Harris indemnity.

     Future laws or regulations and changes in existing environmental laws or
regulations may subject our operations to different, additional or more
stringent standards. While historically the cost of compliance with
environmental laws has not had a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or results of operations, we cannot predict with certainty
our future costs of compliance because of changing standards and requirements.
We cannot assure you that material costs will not be incurred in connection with
the future compliance with environmental laws or with future cleanup costs
related to currently unknown contamination.
