  
Item 1. IXYS Business 

      We are a leading multi-market integrated semiconductor company. We specialize in the development, manufacture and marketing of high performance power semiconductors and advanced mixed signal integrated circuits, or ICs. Our power semiconductors improve system efficiency and reliability by converting electricity at relatively high voltage and current levels into the finely regulated power required by electronic products. We focus on the market for power semiconductors that are capable of processing greater than 500 watts of power. 

      Our power semiconductor products have historically been divided into two primary categories, power MOS, or metal oxide silicon, and power bipolar products. Our power semiconductors are sold as individual units and are also packaged in high power modules that frequently consist of multiple semiconductor die. In fiscal 2004, power semiconductors constituted approximately 72.6% of our revenues, which included 31.4% from power MOS transistors and 41.2% from bipolar products. 

      We design and sell integrated circuits, or ICs, that have applications in telecommunications, display products, and power management. In fiscal 2004, ICs constituted approximately 17.6% of our revenues. 

      We also design and sell RF power, or radio frequency power, devices that switch electricity at the high rates required by circuitry that generates radio frequencies. 

      IXYS’s power semiconductor products are used primarily to control electricity in: 

   
  •  power conversion systems, including uninterruptible power supplies, or UPS, and switch mode power supplies, or SMPS, for communications infrastructure applications such as wireless base stations, network servers and telecommunication switching stations;  
  
  •  motor drives for industrial applications such as industrial transportation, robotics, automation, and process control equipment;  
  
  •  plasma display panels;  
  
  •  medical electronics for sophisticated applications, such as defibrillators and MRI and CT equipment; and  
  
  •  renewable energy sources like wind turbines and solar systems.  


      Our mixed signal ICs are used in telecommunications products, central office switching equipment, customer premises equipment, set top boxes, remote meter reading equipment, security systems, organic light emitting diode, or OLED, and advanced liquid crystal displays, medical electronics and defense aerospace 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

systems. Our RF power devices are used in wireless infrastructure, industrial RF applications, medical systems and defense and space electronics. 
      We design our products primarily for industrial and business applications, rather than for use in personal computers, or mobile phones. In fiscal 2004, we sold our products to over 2,000 customers worldwide. Our major customers include ABB, Astec, Delta Electronics, Eupec, General Electric, Guidant, Huawei, LG, Medtronics, Samsung, Siemens and Still. In many cases, our customers incorporate our products into systems sold to their own customers, which include Ericsson, General Electric, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Motorola and Sun Microsystems. 

      We are organized as a Delaware corporation. Our predecessor was incorporated in 1983. 

Background 

      The worldwide demand for electrical energy is currently increasing due to: 

   
  •  proliferation of technology driven products that require electricity, including computers, telecommunications equipment and the infrastructure to support portable electronics;  
  
  •  increased use of electronic content in traditional products such as airplanes, automobiles and home appliances;  
  
  •  increased use of automation and electrical processes in industry and mass transit systems; and  
  
  •  penetration of technology into developing countries.  


      Not only is demand increasing, but the requirements for electricity are also changing. Electronic products in all markets are becoming increasingly sophisticated, offering more “intelligence” through the use of microprocessors and additional components. The increasing complexity of such products requires more precisely regulated power quality and greater power reliability. In addition, the increasing costs of electricity, coupled with governmental regulations and environmental concerns, have caused an increased demand for energy efficiency. 

      Power semiconductors are used to provide the precisely regulated power required by sophisticated electronic products and equipment and address the growing demand for energy efficiency. In most cases, power semiconductors: 

   
  •  convert or “rectify” alternating current, or AC, power delivered by electrical utilities to direct current, or DC, power which is required by most electronic equipment;  
  
  •  convert DC power at a certain voltage level to DC power at a different voltage level to meet the specific voltage requirement for an application;  
  
  •  invert DC power to high frequency AC power to permit the processing of power using substantially smaller electronic components; or  
  
  •  rectify high frequency AC power from switch-mode power supplies to meet the specific DC voltage required by an application.  


      The more sophisticated the end product, the greater the need for specially formatted, finely regulated power, and the greater the need for a high performance power semiconductor. 

      Power semiconductors improve system efficiency and reliability by processing and converting electrical energy into more usable, higher quality power. Specifically, power semiconductors are used primarily in controlling energy in power conversion systems, including switch mode power supplies, or SMPS, and uninterruptible power supplies, or UPS, and motor drive controls. Switch mode power supplies efficiently convert power to meet the specific voltage requirements of an application, such as communications equipment. Uninterruptible power supplies provide a short term backup of electricity in the event of power failure. Motor drive controls regulate the voltage, current and frequency of power to a motor. 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      With the growth in telecommunications, data communications and wireless communications, the demand for analog and mixed signal ICs and RF power semiconductors has grown. Our mixed signal ICs address the interface between telecommunication and data communication components, both in the central office and in gateway applications, especially with the increased use of the Internet protocol, or IP. Our RF power semiconductors are used in wireless infrastructure and in other microwave communication applications. Technical advancement in the communication industries is expected to drive the demand for higher performance semiconductors. 

Market Size And Trends 

      The primary markets we serve are characterized by complex technological development and higher power level requirements. We believe the following key trends are driving the demand for our products: 

      Growth in communications devices and infrastructure. The worldwide communications industry has experienced rapid growth in the last decade, fueled largely by growth in the Internet and in wireless communication, deregulation, competition, privatization and technological advances, including the convergence of voice, video and data communication. The proliferation of electronic devices and the infrastructure to support them is resulting in increasing power level requirements and the demand for greater power reliability, as well as the need for efficient solid state analog and mixed signal devices that address the interface between telecommunication and data communication components. 

      Increased demand for energy efficiency in motor drives. Electronic motors consume approximately one-half of the world’s electricity. Due to costs and complexity, motor controls that permit variable speed operation, which in turn reduce energy consumption, have been predominantly used only in higher end applications. However, recent advancements in power management enable more cost effective, variable speed motor controls, which enhance energy efficiency and improve performance in a wide range of industrial and commercial applications, such as heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. 

      Emergence of new applications in medical electronics. Continued advancements in medical technologies are resulting in more sophisticated medical electronic devices. Power semiconductors can greatly reduce the size of equipment and improve the precision of medical measurements and functionality. Power semiconductors have enabled cardiac defibrillators to become much smaller and more portable, improving the ability to install these devices in more non-medical establishments, such as airplanes and office buildings. Medical imaging systems, such as ultrasound and MRI, require high performance mixed signal ICs and RF power semiconductors to meet the technical requirements of the marketplace. 

      Development of new technologies for power management. New technologies, such as the use of RF for nontraditional power applications, are opening new markets for power semiconductors. For example, RF based semiconductor production equipment is migrating to high frequency power MOS transistors from traditional RF tubes. Additionally, material science developments, such as gallium arsenide, are enabling the production of higher power density power management products, such as those required for wireless base stations. 

      Demand for increasing power density. The need for higher levels of power in end use applications is causing purchasers of power semiconductors to demand more power for their applications from the same physical space. In the communications industry, the growth in bandwidth demands is requiring communications equipment providers to add more equipment or more powerful equipment to confined spaces in highly populated areas. As a result, power semiconductor manufacturers are being required to design and produce products that enable their customers to expand power levels without expanding product footprints, or maintaining levels of power while shrinking product footprints. 

      Demand for new display technologies. The demand for flat televisions and brighter and energy efficient displays for portable equipment drives the demand for our power MOS devices and display control ICs. 

IXYS’s Strategy 

      We focus on meeting the needs of the high power, high performance segment of the power semiconductor market, serving it with our advanced power and IC technologies. We have diversified our business to introduce 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

products into new markets, with an objective to achieve faster revenue growth than our competitors, while stabilizing the business and providing sustained growth. We intend to continue building a leading position within our targeted segments of these markets by pursuing the following strategies: 
      Maintain technological focus on high power, high performance markets. Our technological expertise enables us to focus on the high power, high performance markets. Due to technological complexities, fewer industry players compete in these markets, resulting in a more favorable competitive environment for us. We believe our technological expertise differentiates us from most of our competitors. This expertise encompasses a wide range of scientific disciplines and technical capabilities, including physics, mechanical engineering, chemistry, circuit design, material science and packaging. Using our technological expertise, we continually strive to introduce innovative products. 

      Target rapid growth. We select the specific markets where we intend to compete by evaluating their potential growth, our ability to establish an advantage based upon our technological capabilities and the performance of competing products. For example, to capitalize on the power density and switching speed of our products, we entered the data communications segments of the communications infrastructure market. These segments include applications for wireless base stations, internet servers, storage area networks and plasma display products. 

      Focus on niche markets. We focus on niche markets that are not adequately addressed by our larger competitors. Our larger competitors are often not flexible enough to address niche markets and smaller customers. We focus on these markets and customers, providing them with products configured to meet their specific needs. 

      Continue to diversify markets, customers and products. We believe that diversifying the markets and customers we serve and the products we produce enables us to minimize the traditional cyclical effects of the semiconductor industry on our business. We have a significant market presence in Europe, North America and Asia, the three principal geographic markets for high performance power semiconductors. Moreover, our products are used in a broad range of applications, from communications infrastructure to industrial automation to medical electronics, thereby reducing our reliance on customers from any particular industry. Our product line spans a broad range of functionality and price, which allows us to provide an appropriate solution to most of our customers’ power semiconductor needs. 

      Pursue selective acquisition and investment strategy. We seek to access additional technological capabilities and complementary product lines through selective acquisitions and strategic investments. For example through the acquisition of Clare, Inc., we expanded our product offerings into the semiconductor segment of the market that replaces electromagnetic relays, or EMRs, with solid state relays, or SSRs. Clare’s semiconductor products are capable of integrating a number of functions previously provided by discrete components into one package and including product applications such as modem interfaces to the Internet, cable set top boxes, and voice over Internet protocol, or VOIP, applications. Our Micronix subsidiary has developed mixed-signal ASICs for the medical and military markets and for emerging flat panel displays based on OLEDs. Microwave Technology, our most recent acquisition, substantially increases our RF power products, with a product line of gallium arsenide devices that are useful in the amplification or reception of RF in wireless, medical, defense and space applications. 

      Collaborate with select companies on product development. We seek to enter into collaborative arrangements with existing and potential customers in attractive end user markets in order to optimize our products for their use. For example, we partnered with manufacturers of portable defibrillators at an early stage in the development of this market, and we have become a leading supplier of power semiconductors for these devices. 

      Optimize mix between internal and external manufacturing. We intend to continue using both internal wafer fabrication facilities and our external foundry relationships. We also seek to balance our product assembly through multiple sourcing relationships. We believe these strategies enable us to maximize our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility. We also believe that our internal manufacturing capabilities enable us to lower our manufacturing cost with respect to certain products, bring products to market more quickly than 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

would be possible if we were required to rely exclusively on external foundries, retain certain proprietary aspects of our process technology and more quickly introduce new process and product innovations through close collaboration between our design and process engineers. Our alliances with external foundries and assembly subcontractors allow us to substantially reduce capital spending and manufacturing overhead expenses, obtain competitive pricing and technologies and expand manufacturing capacity more rapidly than could be achieved with internal facilities alone. 
Power Semiconductors 

      Our power semiconductor products have historically been divided into two primary categories, power MOS transistors and bipolar products. Our power semiconductors are sold separately and are also packaged in high power modules that frequently consist of multiple semiconductor dies. In fiscal year 2004, power semiconductors constituted approximately 72.6% of our revenues, which included about 31.4% from power MOS transistors and about 41.2% from bipolar products. In fiscal 2003, power semiconductors constituted approximately 78.2% of our revenues, which included about 29.7% from power MOS transistors and about 48.5% from bipolar products. In fiscal 2002, power semiconductors constituted approximately 94.5% of our revenues, which included about 39.2% from power MOS transistors and about 55.3% from bipolar products. 

 
  
 Power MOS Transistors. 

      Power MOS transistors offer significant price/performance benefits over traditional bipolar transistors. Power MOS transistors operate at much greater switching speeds, allowing the design of smaller and less costly end products, primarily due to the smaller and less expensive peripheral components required at higher switching frequencies. Power MOS transistors are activated by voltage rather than current, so they require less external circuitry to operate, making them more compatible with ICs controls. Power MOS transistors also offer more reliable long term performance and are more rugged than traditional bipolar transistors, permitting them to better withstand adverse operating conditions. Our power MOS transistors consist of power MOSFETs and IGBTs. 

 
  
 Power MOSFETs. 

      A power MOSFET, or metal oxide silicon field effect transistor, is a switch controlled by voltage at the gate. Power MOSFETs are used in combination with passive components to vary the amperage and frequency of electricity by switching on and off at high frequency. 

      Our power MOSFETs are used primarily in power conversion systems and are focused on higher voltage applications ranging from 60 to 1,700 volts. Our power MOSFETs have on state resistance among the lowest available for a given die size and voltage. Lower on state resistance results in increased efficiency of a power semiconductor device. We believe that as the power requirements of workstations, servers and other computers increase as the result of larger and more powerful processors and memory systems, the designers of power supplies will increasingly demand higher power density. MOSFETs accommodate this need by providing higher power with higher efficiency and by reducing the physical size of the power supplies incorporated into such equipment. 

 
  
 IGBTs. 

      IGBTs, or insulated gate bipolar transistors, also are used as switches. IGBTs have achieved many of the advantages of power MOSFETs and of traditional bipolar technology by combining the voltage controlled switching features of power MOSFETs with the superior conductivity and energy efficiency of bipolar transistors. For a given semiconductor die size, IGBTs can operate at higher currents and voltages, making them a more cost effective device for high energy applications than power MOSFETs. 

      Since inception, we have been a leader in the development of IGBTs for high voltage applications. Our current products are focused on voltage applications ranging from 300 volts to 2,500 volts. Our IGBTs are used principally in AC motor drives, power systems and defibrillators. 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

 
  
 Bipolar Products. 

      Bipolar products are also used to process electricity, but are activated by current rather than voltage. Bipolar products are capable of switching electricity at substantially higher power levels than power MOS transistors. However, switching speeds of bipolar products are slower than those of power MOS transistors, and as a result, bipolar products are preferred where very high power is required. Our bipolar products consist of rectifiers and thyristors. 

 
  
 Rectifiers. 

      Rectifiers convert AC power to DC power and are used primarily in input and output rectification and inverters. Our rectifiers are used in DC and AC motor drives, power supplies, lighting and heating controls and welding equipment. 

      A subset of our rectifier product group is a very fast switching device known as a FRED, or fast recovery epitaxial diode. FREDs limit spikes in voltage across the power switch to reduce power dissipation and electromagnetic interference. Our FREDs are used principally in AC motor drives and power supplies. 

 
  
 Thyristors. 

      Thyristors are switches that can be turned on by a controlled signal and turned off only when the output current is reduced to zero, which occurs in the flow of AC power. Thyristors are preferred over power MOSFETs and IGBTs in high voltage, low frequency AC applications because their on state resistance is lower than the on state resistance of power MOSFETs and IGBTs. Our thyristors are used in motor drives, defibrillators, power supplies, lighting and heating controls and welding. 

 
  
 Gallium Arsenide Power Products. 

      Our gallium arsenide, or GaAs, products are Schottky rectifiers, useful for high power density applications, such as power supplies for wireless communications base stations. Gallium arsenide offers higher frequency and higher temperature operation, enabling substantially greater power density than silicon-based solutions. 

Integrated Circuits 

      Our integrated circuits address the demand for analog and mixed signal interface solutions in the communication and other industries, mixed signal application specific ICs designed for specific customers as well as standard products, and power management and control. ICs accounted for 1.4% of our revenues in fiscal 2002, 19.3% in fiscal 2003 and 17.6% in fiscal 2004. 

 
  
 Solid State Relays. 

      We manufacture solid state relays, or SSRs, that isolate the low current communication signal from the higher power circuit, while also switching to control the flow of current. Our SSRs, which include high voltage analog components, optocouplers and integrated packages, are utilized principally in telecommunication and video and data communication applications, as well as instrumentation, industrial control, and aerospace and automotive applications. 

 
  
 DAA and LCAS integrated products. 

      Data access arrangements, or DAAs, integrate a number of discrete components and are principally used in analog data communications that interface with telephone network applications. Our LitelinkTM products are DAAs for applications such as VOIP, wired communication lines and set top boxes. A line card access switch, or LCAS, is a solid state solution for a switching function traditionally performed by electromagnetic devices. Our LCAS products are used in central office switching applications to enable data and voice telephony. 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

 
  
 Application Specific Integrated Circuits. 

      We design high voltage, analog and mixed signal application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, for a variety of applications. Applying our technological expertise in ASICs, we also design and sell application specific standard products. In this regard, we have developed a family of integrated circuit column and row drivers for the organic light emitting diode, or OLED, display market. 

 
  
 Power Management and Control ICs. 

      We also design and sell power management and control ICs, such as current regulators, motion controllers, digital power modulators and drivers for power MOSFETs and IGBTs. These ICs typically manage, control or regulate power semiconductors and the circuits and subassemblies that incorporate them. 

RF Power 

      Our RF power devices switch electricity at the high rates necessary to enable the amplification or reception of radio frequencies. Our products include field effect transistors, or FETs, pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistors, or PHEMTs and Gunn diodes. These products are principally gallium arsenide devices, which remain efficient at the high heat and energy levels inherent in RF applications. 

Other Products 

      We manufacture our proprietary direct copper bond, or DCB, substrates for use in our own semiconductor products as well as for sale to a variety of customers, including those in the power semiconductor industry. DCB technology cost effectively provides excellent thermal transfer while maintaining high electrical isolation. This technology addresses thermal fatigue and die cracking problems encountered by manufacturers of power semiconductor modules utilizing traditional copper base plates. Additionally, we manufacture and sell laser diode drivers, high voltage pulse generators and modulators, and high power subsystems that are principally based on our high power semiconductor devices. 

Customers and Applications 

      Our power semiconductors are used primarily to control electricity in power conversion systems, motor drives and medical electronics. Our ICs are used mainly to interface with telecommunication lines, to control power semiconductors and to drive medical equipment and displays. Our RF power semiconductors enable the amplification and reception of radio frequencies in telecommunication, industrial, defense and space applications. The following table summarizes the primary categories of uses for our products, some applications served by these products and some representative customers. 

                  
Category  IXYS Products  End User Applications  Selected Customers 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Power Conversion Systems    FRED
IGBT
Module
MOSFET
Rectifier
IC Driver   SMPS and UPS for:
Wireless base stations
Internet facilities
Storage Area Networks
RF Generators    
Delta Electronics
Emerson Electric
Tyco
Power-One
Schneider Group  
  
Motor Drives    FRED
IGBT
Module
MOSFET
Thyristor
IC Driver   Automation
Robotics
Process control equipment
Machine tools
Electric trains    ABB
Eurotherm
Rockwell International
Siemens
GE  

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

                  
Category  IXYS Products  End User Applications  Selected Customers 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
Medical Electronics    IGBT
MOSFET
Thyristor
IC
GaAs FET   Defibrillators
Medical imaging devices
Laser power supplies
Ultrasound
Hearing aids    GE
Guidant
Medtronic
Philips
St. Jude  
  
Telecommunication    SSR
LCAS
GaAs FET
DAA   Point of sale terminals
Modems
Set top boxes
Wireless base stations
Central office    Huawei
Lucent
Nortel
NEC
Cisco  
  
Display    MOSFET
IC driver   Plasma display panels
OLED displays
E-books    Samsung
LG Electronics
Philips
Sony  

      We also sell our power semiconductor chips and DCB substrates to other power semiconductor companies for use in their modules. These customers include Infineon, International Rectifier, Powersem and Tyco. 

Sales and Marketing 

      We sell our products through a worldwide selling organization that includes direct sales personnel, independent representatives and distributors. As of March 31, 2004, we employed 59 people in sales and marketing and customer support and service and used 41 sales representative organizations and 11 distributors in North and South America and 103 sales representative organizations and distributors in the rest of the world. Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 37% of net revenues in fiscal 2004, 36% of net revenues in fiscal 2003, and 41% of net revenues in fiscal 2002. 

      In fiscal year 2004, United States sales represented approximately 33.1%, and international sales represented approximately 66.9%, of our net revenues. Of our international sales in fiscal year 2004, approximately 56.8% were derived from sales in Europe and the Middle East, approximately 38.4% were derived from sales in Asia and approximately 4.8% were derived from sales in the Americas other than the United States. No single end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal year 2004. For financial information about geographic areas for each of our last three fiscal years, see our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, Segment and Geographic Information provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We market our products through advertisements, technical articles and press releases that appear regularly in a variety of trade publications, as well as through the dissemination of brochures, data sheets and technical manuals. Additionally, we participate in industry trade shows on a regular basis. We also have a presence on the Internet through a worldwide web page that enables engineers to access and download technical information and data sheets. 

Research and Development 

      We believe that we successfully compete in our markets because of our ability to design, develop and introduce to the market on a timely basis new products offering technological improvements. We are a pioneer in technology with respect to higher power MOSFETs, IGBTs, SSRs, OLED driver ICs and direct bonded substrates. While the time from initiation of design to volume production of new semiconductors often takes 18 months or longer, our power semiconductors have a product lifetime of many years. Our research and development expenses were approximately $15.8 million in fiscal 2004, $12.8 million in fiscal 2003 and $5.7 million in fiscal 2002. As of March 31, 2004, we employed 105 people in engineering and research and development activities. 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

      We are engaged in ongoing research and development efforts focused on enhancements to existing products and the development of new products. Currently, we are pursuing research and development projects with respect to: 

   
  •  developing RF power MOSFETs and GaAs FETs;  
  
  •  increasing the operating range of our MOS and bipolar products;  
  
  •  developing new gallium arsenide products;  
  
  •  developing high efficiency solar cells;  
  
  •  developing higher power IGBT modules;  
  
  •  developing color OLED driver ICs;  
  
  •  developing power solid state relays; and  
  
  •  developing power management ICs based on our HVIC technology.  


      Research and development activities are conducted in collaboration with manufacturing activities to help expedite new products from the development phase to manufacturing and to more quickly implement new process technologies. 

      Our research and development efforts also include participation in technology collaborations with universities and research institutions. These technology collaborations allow research and development activities that would otherwise require potentially cost prohibitive capital expenditures since the necessary capital equipment is often available at research institutes and universities. Through these technology collaborations, we believe we are able to maximize our range of research and development activities without diffusing the focus of our internal research and development work. 

Patents 

      As of March 31, 2004, we held 124 issued patents, of which 80 were issued in the U.S. and 44 were issued in international jurisdictions. As of March 31, 2004, we also held 124 pending patents, of which 59 were pending in the U.S. and 65 were pending in international jurisdictions. We rely on a combination of patent rights, copyrights and trade secrets to protect the proprietary elements of our products. Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions and improvements that are important to our business. We also seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technology, in part, through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. 

      While we believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable, we also believe that other factors, such as innovative skills, technical expertise, the ability to adapt quickly to new technologies and evolving customer requirements, product support and customer relations, are of greater competitive significance. 

Manufacturing and Facilities 

      The production of our products is a highly complex and precise process. We manufacture our products in our own manufacturing facilities and by utilizing external wafer foundries and subcontract assembly facilities. We divide our manufacturing operations into three key areas, wafer fabrication, assembly and test. 

 
  
 Wafer Fabrication. 

      We own an approximately 170,000 square foot facility in Lampertheim, Germany at which we fabricate all of our bipolar products. We also have an approximately 100,000 square foot facility in Chippenham, England where we fabricate the majority of our very high power devices; an approximately 83,000 square foot facility in Beverly, Massachusetts, capable of manufacturing high voltage silicon on insulator ICs, where we fabricate our SSR, DAA and LCAS products; and an approximately 30,000 square foot facility in Fremont, California, where we manufacture our gallium arsenide RF power semiconductors. We believe that our internal fabrication capabilities enable us to lower our manufacturing cost with respect to certain products, 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

bring products to the market more quickly than would be possible if we were required to rely exclusively on external foundries, retain certain proprietary aspects of our process technology and more quickly introduce new process innovations. 
      In addition to maintaining our own fabrication facilities, we have established alliances with selected foundries for wafer fabrication. This approach allows us to reduce substantial capital spending and manufacturing overhead expenses, obtain competitive pricing and technologies and expand manufacturing capacity more rapidly than could be achieved with internal foundries alone. We retain the flexibility to shift the production of our products to different or additional foundries for cost or performance reasons. Our product designs enable the production of our devices at multiple foundries using well established and cost effective processes. 

      Measured in dollars, we relied on external foundries for approximately 41.4% of our wafer fabrication requirements in fiscal year 2004, and our utilization of external foundries is expected to grow. We have arrangements with eight external wafer foundries, three of which provide the wafers for power semiconductors that we purchase from external foundries. Our principal external foundry is Samsung Electronics’s facility located in Kiheung, South Korea. Our relationship with Samsung Electronics extends almost two decades. We provide our foundries forecasts for wafer fabrication six months in advance and make firm purchase commitments one to two months in advance of delivery. Other than these firm commitments, we do not have any obligations to order any minimum quantities. 

      Wafer fabrication of power semiconductors generally employs process technology and equipment already proven in IC manufacturing. Power semiconductors are manufactured using fabrication equipment that is one or more generations behind the equipment used to fabricate leading edge ICs. Used fabrication equipment can be obtained at prices substantially less than the original cost of such equipment or the cost of current equipment applying the latest technology. Consequently, the fabrication of power semiconductors is less capital intensive than the fabrication of leading edge ICs. 

 
  
 Assembly. 

      Packaging or assembly is the sequence of production steps that divide the wafer into individual chips and enclose the chips in external structures, termed packages, that make them useable in a circuit. Discrete manufacturing involves the assembly and packaging of single die devices. Module manufacturing involves the assembly of multiple devices within a single package. SSR products involve multiple chip assembly on a specialized lead frame. The resulting packages vary in configuration, but all have leads that are used to mount the package through holes in the customer’s printed circuit boards. 

      Most of our wafers are sent to independent subcontract assembly facilities. We have equipment at, or manufacturing supply arrangements with, assembly subcontractors located in Asia and Europe in order to take advantage of low assembly costs. Measured in dollars, approximately 56.7% of our products are assembled at external assembly facilities, and the remainder are assembled in our Lampertheim, Chippenham and Fremont facilities. 

 
  
 Test. 

      Generally, each die on our wafers is electrically tested for performance after wafer fabrication. Following assembly, our products are typically returned to our facilities for testing and final inspection prior to shipment to customers. 

11 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Competition 

      The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by price competition, technological change, limited fabrication capacity, international competition and manufacturing yield problems. The competitive factors in the market for our products include: 

   
  •  product quality, reliability and performance;  
  
  •  product features;  
  
  •  timely delivery of products;  
  
  •  price;  
  
  •  breadth of product line;  
  
  •  design and introduction of new products; and  
  
  •  technical support and service.  


      We believe that we are one of a limited group of companies focused on the development and marketing of high power, high performance semiconductors capable of performing all of the basic functions of power semiconductor design and manufacture. Our primary power semiconductor competitors include Advanced Power Technology, Fairchild Semiconductor, Fuji, International Rectifier, Infineon, On Semiconductor, Powerex, Semikron International, STMicroelectronics, Siemens and Toshiba. Our IC products compete principally with those of Agere, Legacy, NEC and Silicon Labs. 

Backlog 

      Our trade sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders that are booked months in advance of delivery. Generally, prices and quantities are fixed at the time of booking. Backlog as of a given date consists of existing orders and forecasted demands from our customers. Backlog is influenced by several factors including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. 

      In the semiconductor industry, backlog quantities and shipment schedules under outstanding purchase orders are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs. Agreements calling for the sale of specific quantities are either contractually subject to quantity revisions or, as a matter of industry practice, are often not enforced. Therefore, a significant portion of our order backlog may be cancelable. For these reasons, the amount of backlog as of any particular date may not be an accurate indicator of future results. 

      We sell products to key customers pursuant to contracts that allow us to schedule production capacity in advance and allow the customers to manage their inventory levels consistent with just-in-time principles while shortening the cycle times required to produce ordered product. However, these contracts are typically amended to reflect changes in customer demands and periodic price renegotiations. 

      At March 31, 2004, our backlog of orders was approximately $77.3 million, as compared with $49.8 million at March 31, 2003. Backlog represents firm orders expected to be shipped within the 12 months following March 31, 2004. 

Employees 

      At March 31, 2004, we employed 860 employees, of whom 105 were primarily engaged in engineering and research and development activities, 59 in marketing, sales and customer support, 637 in manufacturing and 59 in administration and finance. Of these employees, 116 hold engineering or science degrees, including 19 Ph.D.s. Certain employees at our Lampertheim and Chippenham facilities are subject to collective bargaining agreements. There have been no work stoppages at any of our facilities to date. We believe that our employee relations are good. 

12 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Available Information 

      We currently make available through our website at http://www.IXYS.com, free of charge, copies of these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after submitting the information to the SEC. None of the information posted on our website is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. You can also request free copies of such documents by contacting us at 408-982-0700 or by sending an e-mail to admins@IXYS.net. 

 