Item 1.    Business
 
          Except for the historical information contained herein, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and include statements about our manufacturing capabilities and cashflows. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “expects”, “plans”, “could”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “estimates,” “predicts”, “potential” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks outlined under “Risk Factors,” that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward- looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements or to conform such statements to actual results.
 
Introduction
 
          Kopin Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1984 and is a leading developer and manufacturer of advanced semiconductor materials and miniature flat panel displays. We use our proprietary technology to design, manufacture and market products used in highly demanding wireless communications and high resolution portable consumer electronics applications. Our products enable our customers to develop and market an improved generation of products for these target applications.
 
          We produce two types of high performance components - our heterojunction bipolar transistor wafers, or HBT transistor wafers, and our CyberDisplay products. Our HBT transistor wafer product is a customer specific array of vertically oriented transistors that our customers use primarily to produce high performance integrated circuits for wireless communications products. Currently we offer for commercial sale HBT transistor wafers manufactured on gallium aresenide (GaAs) substrates and we are developing HBT transistor wafers manufactured on indium phosphide (InP). We are also developing various products which use gallium nitrite. Collectively we refer to these as “Three Five” products. Our CyberDisplay products are miniature, high performance, high resolution, low cost displays that we believe are well suited for high resolution, high information content applications. Current applications of our CyberDisplay products include viewing images in camcorders and digital cameras, and we believe that our CyberDisplay products are well suited for new applications such as reading e-mail and browsing the Internet using digital wireless handsets, pagers and other consumer electronics devices.
 
          The principal customer for our HBT transistor wafers is Conexant Systems. In addition to Conexant, original equipment manufacturers including Mitsubishi Electric Company, Ltd., Nortel Networks and Agilent purchase our HBT transistor wafers. We currently sell our CyberDisplay product to Victor Company of Japan Ltd. (JVC), Matsushita Electrical Industrial Co., Ltd. (Panasonic) and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (Samsung) for use in digital camcorders.
 
          On December 29, 1999, we effected a 2 for 1 stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend to all holders of our common stock. On July 12, 2000, we effected another 2 for 1 stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend to all holders of our common stock. All share numbers and prices in this Form 10-K have been adjusted to reflect these stock dividends.
 
Industry Overview
 
 Three Five Products 

 
          Advanced semiconductor materials are used in the manufacture of integrated circuits for high frequency, low power applications. The rapid growth in the wireless communications industry, as well as the increasingly shorter product cycles of wireless products, has fueled demand for these integrated circuits, which are predominantly used in wireless handsets.
 
          In first generation wireless handsets, integrated circuits used in high frequency, low power applications were generally constructed with silicon-based semiconductors. These integrated circuits, while relatively inexpensive to manufacture, were unable to deliver the performance demanded by wireless handset manufacturers and their customers. This inability led to the development of gallium arsenide products for use in wireless communications. Gallium arsenide is generally regarded as having better performance characteristics than silicon due, in part, to its inherent physical properties that permit gallium arsenide integrated circuits to operate at much higher frequencies than silicon integrated circuits, or operate at the same frequency with lower power consumption. The reduction in system power requirements is particularly important in portable applications, such as wireless handsets, because it extends battery life. The high performance characteristics of gallium arsenide have led to the increased use of gallium arsenide field effect transistors, commonly known as MESFETs, in a wide range of commercial systems.
 
          Even as device manufacturers are increasingly adopting gallium arsenide field effect transistor technology in the manufacture of high frequency integrated circuits, the industry is calling for even greater performance. Second generation wireless communications products use digital signal processing and generally operate at higher cellular frequencies. Air interface standards in these frequency bands have increased in recent years. These standards, which include Global System Mobile, or GSM, Time Division Multiple Access, or TDMA, and Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, provide improved capacity, sound quality and capabilities at cellular and wireless frequency bands, but are incompatible with each other and have fragmented the market for equipment. Suppliers of wireless handsets have begun to offer multi-mode and multi-band wireless handsets that allow users to switch from one high frequency band to another to enable consumers to use wireless handsets across various territories and different interface standards. This new generation of products is significantly more complex than the prior generation and requires certain key features, including:
 
 Ÿ   Simpler system design; 

 
 Ÿ   Support for higher frequencies; 

 
 Ÿ   Lower power consumption; 

 
 Ÿ   Improved signal quality; and 

 
 Ÿ   Wider range of operating temperatures. 

 
 Display Products 

 
 Ÿ   Small form factor displays are used in the consumer electronics industry in products such as camcorders and digital cameras. We also expect that a large market for new wireless communications devices, including third generation wireless handsets and enhanced pagers will develop. In order for this market to develop, advances in wireless communications systems such as greater bandwidth and increased functionality, including real-time wireless data and broadband Internet access, will be necessary. Small form factor displays are expected to be a critical component in the development of advanced wireless communications systems, as these systems must provide high resolution images without compromising the portability of the product. 

 
          There are several display technologies currently available. The most commonly used technology in portable applications is based on the traditional liquid crystal display, or LCD, which is now in widespread use in products requiring a solid state monochrome or color display. These displays form an image by either transmitting or blocking light emitted from a source located behind the LCD. The principal LCD technologies are passive and active matrix.
 
 Ÿ   Passive Matrix LCD.    These displays are primarily used in calculators, watches, pagers and wireless handsets because of their relatively low cost and low power consumption. Their relatively low image quality, slow response time and limited viewing angle, however, make them inadequate for many demanding applications. 

 
 Ÿ   Active Matrix LCD.    These displays are used primarily in laptop computers, instrumentation and projection systems. In contrast to passive matrix LCDs, monochrome active matrix LCDs incorporate a transistor at every pixel location and color active matrix LCDs incorporate three transistors at every pixel location. This arrangement allows each pixel to be turned on and off independently which improves image quality and response time and also provides an improved side-to-side viewing angle of the display. The increased number of transistors required to produce those benefits, however, creates significant drawbacks, particularly in color applications. The high number of transistors used in conventional active matrix LCDs limits achievable pixel density and their relatively high power consumption makes them difficult to use in high information content ultra-portable electronics products. 

 
          The high growth potential for portable communications products can be realized effectively only if these products are able to clearly present to end users the information they wish to access without compromising the size of the product. These products, as well as future models of digital cameras and other consumer electronics, are well suited for the use of a miniature, low cost display with low power consumption and sharp monochrome or rich, full color high resolution images. To date, display technologies have not fully addressed these needs due to constraints with respect to size, power consumption, resolution, cost or full color capability.
 
The Kopin Solution
 
 Three Five Products 

 
          We manufacture our HBT transistor wafers using our proprietary metal organic chemical vapor deposition semiconductor growth techniques. By depositing films of atomic-level thickness on gallium arsenide wafers, we are able to create HBT transistor wafers that consist of a series of material layers which form a vertical transistor. This transistor structure enables the design of integrated circuits in which individual transistors are vertically arranged.
 
          The vertical structure of an HBT transistor wafer, as opposed to the horizontal structure of a competing gallium arsenide field effect transistor, offers advantages to an integrated circuit manufacturer:
 
 Ÿ   Smaller Size.    We believe that integrated circuits fabricated from our HBT transistor wafers can be made smaller than integrated circuits fabricated from gallium arsenide field effect transistors. Smaller size enables more die per wafer, which can increase manufacturing yields and lead to reduced costs. 

 
 Ÿ   Faster Circuits.    We believe that our HBT transistor wafers enable the design of faster integrated circuits than may be designed with gallium arsenide field effect transistors because the effective transistor gate length, or the distance an electron must travel within a transistor, is shorter. The transistor gate length of gallium arsenide field effect transistors is constrained by current optical lithography techniques to approximately 0.15 microns for commercial volumes. We currently manufacture our HBT transistor wafers in commercial volumes with an effective transistor gate length ranging from approximately 0.05 microns to 0.1 microns. We are able to achieve this result because the thickness of the vertical base layer of our HBT transistor wafers determines transistor gate length rather than the limitations of current optical lithography techniques. 

 
           We believe that our HBT transistor wafers also offer the following additional advantages over gallium arsenide field effect transistors:
 
 Ÿ   Greater Power Efficiency.    Efficiency is a measure of power output as a percentage of battery power consumed by the device. We believe that our HBT transistor wafers are more efficient and use less power to transmit the same output power than comparable gallium arsenide field effect transistors. Increased efficiency can translate into improved battery life and increased talk time. 

 
 Ÿ   Improved Signal Quality.    Power amplifiers within wireless handsets are a key determinant of signal quality. We believe that power amplifiers based on our HBT transistor wafers can amplify signals with reduced distortion, providing increased signal quality. Improved signal quality is important for wireless networks that use digital air interface standards such as Time Division Multiple Access, or TDMA, and Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA. 

 
 Ÿ   Less Complexity.    Power amplifiers and other integrated circuits based on our HBT transistor wafers run on a single power supply voltage. In contrast, gallium arsenide field effect transistors generally require both a positive and negative power supply, which results in the need to include a negative voltage generator and other additional components or circuitry. As a result, we believe that integrated circuits using our HBT transistor wafers are easier to design, which can translate into reduced component costs and smaller equipment. 

 
 CyberDisplay Products 

 
          Our principal CyberDisplay product is a miniature, 0.24 inch diagonal, high density 320 x 240 resolution color or monochrome active matrix LCD. In contrast to current passive matrix and active matrix LCD approaches, our CyberDisplay products utilize high quality, single crystal silicon—the same high quality silicon used in conventional integrated circuits. This single crystal silicon is not grown on glass; rather, it is first formed on a silicon wafer and then lifted off as a thin film using our proprietary technology. The thin film is patterned into an integrated circuit (including the active matrix, driver circuitry and other logic circuits) in an integrated circuit foundry and transferred to glass, so that the transferred layer is a fully-functional active matrix integrated circuit.
 
          Our proprietary technology enables the production of transparent circuits, in contrast to conventional silicon circuits, which are opaque. Our CyberDisplay products’ imaging properties are a result of the formation of a liquid crystal layer over the transparent active matrix integrated circuit. We believe that our manufacturing process offers several advantages over conventional active matrix LCD manufacturing approaches with regard to small form factor displays, including:
 
 Ÿ   Greater miniaturization; 

 
 Ÿ   Reduced cost; 

 
 Ÿ   Higher pixel density; 

 
 Ÿ   Full color capability; and 

 
 Ÿ   Lower power consumption. 

 
          Our use of high quality single crystal silicon in the manufacture of our CyberDisplay products offers several performance advantages. High quality silicon enables high speed displays which operate at 180 frames per second, compared to 60 frames per second for most active matrix LCDs. At this higher cycle speed, we are able to produce full color displays without using color filters. Our color CyberDisplay products generate colors by using a backlight composed of three light emitting diodes, commonly known as LEDs, that emit a sequence of red, green and blue light. Each pixel either blocks or transmits the colored light 180 times per second, which allows the generation of color images without using three separate pixels, decreasing the size, weight, and power requirements of the color display. Furthermore, the color pixels are not spatially separated as in conventional active matrix LCDs, resulting in sharper color images.
 
           Our CyberDisplay products have the additional advantage of being fabricated using conventional silicon integrated circuit lithography processes. These processes enable the manufacture of miniature active matrix circuits, resulting in comparable or higher resolution displays relative to passive and other active matrix displays that are fabricated on glass. Our production partner, United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, fabricates integrated circuits for our CyberDisplay products in its foundry in Taiwan. The fabricated wafers are then returned to our facilities, where we lift the integrated circuits off the silicon wafers and transfer them to glass using our proprietary technology. The transferred integrated circuits are then processed and packaged with liquid crystal and assembled into display panels for shipment to customers. This arrangement allows us to benefit from UMC’s economies of scale and advanced fabrication processes. We expect that our CyberDisplay products will benefit from further general technological advances in the design and production of integrated circuits and active matrix LCDs, resulting in further improvements in resolution and miniaturization.
 
          Our CyberDisplay products, when illuminated by a backlight and viewed through a lens, display high resolution video and data images equivalent to viewing a 20 inch diagonal screen from a distance of five feet.
 
Strategy
 
          Our objective is to be the leading supplier of advanced semiconductor materials and miniature displays that enable our customers to develop and manufacture differentiated communications and consumer electronic devices in high volumes. The critical elements of our strategy include:
 
 Ÿ   Increase the Number of Product Designs That Use Our Components.    Our goal is to grow sales of our components by increasing the number and type of products into which they are incorporated. Both of our product lines are subject to long design lead-times, and we work closely with our customers to help them design and develop cost-effective products based on our HBT transistor wafer and CyberDisplay products. We use an aggressive pricing strategy as an inducement for manufacturers of consumer electronics and wireless communications products to integrate our CyberDisplay products into their products. 

 
 Ÿ   Reduce CyberDisplay Production Costs.    We intend to reduce our per unit production costs for our CyberDisplay product line. We plan to achieve this primarily through automation, utilizing third party vendors in lower labor cost countries than the United States and by lowering fixed costs per unit through increased volume. 

 
 Ÿ   Maintain Our Technological Leadership.    We believe that our ability to develop innovative products based on our extensive materials science expertise enhances our opportunity to grow within our targeted markets. By continuing to invest in research and development, we are able to add to our expertise in the design of HBT transistor wafers and innovative, high-resolution, miniature flat panel displays. We intend to continue to focus our development efforts on our proprietary HBT transistor wafers and miniature displays. 

 
 Ÿ   Leverage Integrated Circuit and Display Technologies and Infrastructure.    We will continue to leverage our use of standard integrated circuit fabrication and LCD packaging technologies to achieve greater production capacity and to reduce capital investment and process development costs. Our use of these technologies allows us to engage third party manufacturers for certain fabrication and packaging of our CyberDisplay products and to rapidly take advantage of new technologies, cost-efficiencies and increased production capabilities of these third party manufacturers. We believe that general technological advances in the design and fabrication of integrated circuits, LCD technology and LCD manufacturing processes will allow us to continue to enhance our CyberDisplay product manufacturing process. 

 
Markets and Customers
 
 Three Five Products 

 
          We develop and manufacture customer and application specific HBT transistor wafers for advanced integrated circuit applications. We believe that we are one of the world’s leading suppliers of HBT transistor wafers and currently support volume production of three-inch, four-inch and six-inch HBT transistor wafers. Our primary HBT transistor wafer product is based on an aluminum gallium arsenide vertical layer structure. We also supply customers with HBT transistor wafers based on an indium gallium phosphide vertical layer structure. We vary our manufacturing process to create customized HBT transistor wafer products for customers. For the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999, 2000, sales of gallium arsenide products constituted 87%, 87% and 79% of our product revenues, respectively.
 
          Using our HBT transistor wafers, our customers have developed gallium arsenide power amplifiers for wireless handsets. At present, our HBT transistor wafers have been used predominantly in Code Division Multiple Access and Global System Mobile power amplifiers, but we believe that our HBT transistor wafers can be used in, and provide the same benefits to Time Division Multiple Access and third generation wireless handset standards. In those countries where one uniform standard has not yet been adopted, the diversity of standards requires equipment capable of operating in dual modes and bands. This equipment is likely to require higher performance semiconductor technology such as our HBT transistor wafers.
 
          In addition to wireless handset power amplifiers, our HBT transistor wafers are also being used in the fabrication of integrated circuits for other applications. In particular, our HBT transistor wafers are also used in high speed fiber optic switching equipment used in broadband Internet data transmission and high speed instrumentation.
 
          We design our HBT transistor wafers in collaboration with our customers’ engineering teams in order to create customized products that meet their specific application needs. Once our HBT transistor wafers have been “designed in” a customer’s product, we believe that it would be costly and difficult for that customer to switch to an alternate supplier. Our largest customer for our HBT transistor wafers is Conexant, with which we have collaborated on the manufacturing and development of our HBT transistor wafers and related integrated circuits for several years. Other customers of our gallium arsenide products include Agilent, Mitsubishi Electric Co. Ltd, Nortel Networks, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, and Siemens. For the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, sales of gallium arsenide products to Conexant constituted 59%, 49% and 46% of our total revenues, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 1999 and 2000 sales of gallium arsenide products to Mitsubishi Electric Co. Ltd. were 13% and 11% of our total revenues, respectively.
 
 CyberDisplay Products 

 
          We currently sell our CyberDisplay products to customers either as a single component or together with a lens and backlight as a unit. We provide our CyberDisplay products to JVC, Panasonic and Samsung for use in digital camcorders. In addition, we are actively working with numerous other customers to develop additional and new applications for our CyberDisplay products.
 
          In order for our CyberDisplay products to function properly in their intended applications, integrated circuit chip sets generally are required. Several companies have designed integrated circuit chip sets to work with our CyberDisplay products. Motorola has designed the integrated circuit chip set currently used with our CyberDisplay product in camcorders. Motorola and other companies are designing other integrated circuit chip sets based on our CyberDisplay products for use in camcorders and other consumer electronics products.
 
 Sales and Marketing 

 
          We principally sell our HBT transistor wafer products directly to integrated circuit manufacturers in the United States, Europe and Asia. We sell our CyberDisplay products directly to original equipment manufacturers and co-market our CyberDisplay products with Motorola on a worldwide basis under the terms of an agreement with Motorola. Sales of our HBT transistor wafers and our CyberDisplay products to customers in Japan are made primarily through foreign distributors.
 
          We believe that the technical nature of our products and markets demands a commitment to close relationships with our customers. Our sales and marketing staff, assisted by the technical staff and senior management, visits prospective and existing customers worldwide on a regular basis. We believe that these contacts are vital to the development of a close, long-term working relationship with our customers, and in obtaining regular forecasts, market updates and information regarding technical and market trends. We also participate in industry specific trade shows and conferences.
 
          Our design and engineering staff is actively involved with a customer during all phases of prototype design and production by providing engineering data, up-to-date product application notes, regular follow-up and technical assistance. In most cases, our technical staff works with each customer in the development stage to identify potential improvements to the design of the customer’s product in parallel with the customer’s effort. We have established a prototype product design group in Los Gatos, California to assist our CyberDisplay customers to incorporate our products into their own and to reduce the time required to bring end products to the marketplace. This group helps customers accelerate their design process, achieve cost-effective and manufacturable designs, and ensure a smooth transition into high volume production.
 
 Product Development 

 
          We believe that continued introduction of new products in our target markets is essential to our growth. We have assembled a group of highly skilled engineers that work internally as well as with our customers to continue our product development efforts. For the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000 we incurred total research and development expenses of $9.6 million, $7.1 million and $15.1 million, respectively. Research and development expenses, excluding costs associated with our acquisition of Super Epitaxial Products Inc. in 2000, related to our internal development programs for our Three Five and CyberDisplay products were $5.7 million, $4.3 million and $6.4 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000.
 
     Three Five Products
 
          We intend to continue developing HBT transistor wafers and other gallium arsenide products for advanced integrated circuit applications from other compound materials. We are working closely with several of our major customers in the development of the next generation of HBT transistor wafers which will be based on an indium phosphide (InP) substrate instead of our traditional gallium arsenide substrate. We believe that InP HBT transistor wafers provide the performance characterization necessary for the next generation of optoelectronic components such as OC-768 SONET chips.
 
          We are currently manufacturing HBT transistor wafers with a base layer thickness ranging from approximately 0.05 microns to 0.1 microns, and we are developing manufacturing processes to further reduce this thickness. In addition, we are developing manufacturing processes for production of six-inch HBT transistor wafers and are currently providing initial quantities of these wafers to several of our customers.
 
          In 2000, we acquired a privately held Maryland based corporation, Super Epitaxial Products, Inc. (SEP) SEP, which was subsequently renamed Kopin Optical, Inc., has expertise in gallium nitride which we plan to integrate into our production processes. In connection with the acquisition of SEP, we recorded charges aggregating $7.4 million for in-process research and development related to projects under development by SEP at the acquisition date and certain other costs, primarily bonuses paid to SEP employees as an inducement to remain with the Company. These costs are included in research and development expense in the accompanying financial statements.
 
 CyberDisplay Products 

 
          Our product development efforts are focused towards continually enhancing the features, functions and manufacturability of our CyberDisplay products. A principal focus of this effort is the improvement of manufacturing processes for very small active matrix pixels, which we will use in succeeding generations of our CyberDisplay products. The pixel size of our current CyberDisplay products is 15 microns and we believe that we can achieve a pixel size of less than 10 microns in commercial production. This pixel size is in contrast to a pixel size of approximately 100 microns in a typical laptop computer display. The resolution of the current commercially available CyberDisplay product is 320 x 240. We have already demonstrated and are providing our customers with samples of 640 x 480 resolution CyberDisplay products in a 0.38 inch diagonal display. In addition, we have demonstrated 1,280 x 1,024 resolution CyberDisplay products in a 0.96 inch diagonal display, as well as 2,560 x 2,048 resolution CyberDisplay products in a 1.5 inch diagonal display and we are working on the commercialization of these products. We are also working on further decreasing the already low power consumption of our CyberDisplay products. Additional display development efforts include further automating our final display assembly processes and increasing the quantity of CyberDisplay active matrix pixel arrays processed on each transistor by further reducing the display size and using increasingly precise manufacturing techniques.
 
Funded Research and Development
 
          We have entered into various development contracts with agencies of the U.S. government. These contracts help support the continued development of our core technologies. We intend to continue to pursue other U.S. government development contracts for applications that relate to our commercial product applications. Our contracts with U.S. government agencies contain certain milestones relating to technology development and may be terminated by the government agencies prior to completion of funding. Our policy is to retain our proprietary rights with respect to the principal commercial applications of our technology. To the extent technology development has been funded by a U.S. federal agency, under applicable U.S. federal laws, the federal agency has the right to obtain a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, fully-paid license to practice or have practiced this technology for governmental use. Revenues attributable to research and development contracts for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000 totaled $3.7 million, $2.5 million, and $1.6 million, respectively.
 
Competition
 
 Three Five Products 

 
          With respect to our HBT transistor wafers, we presently compete with several companies, including Epitronics, Emcore, V-PEC and Hitachi Cable, as well as integrated circuit manufacturers with in-house transistor growth capabilities, such as TRW, RF Micro Devices, and Fujitsu. In the gallium arsenide HBT transistor wafer market, competition could become increasingly intense as new entrants emerge. The production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits has been and continues to be more costly than the production of silicon integrated circuits. Although we have reduced production costs of our HBT transistor wafers by achieving higher volumes, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to decrease production costs. In addition, we believe the costs of producing gallium arsenide integrated circuits by our customers will continue to exceed the costs associated with the production of competing silicon integrated circuits. As a result, we must target markets where these higher costs are justified by their superior performance. Competition in the display field is based on price and performance characteristics, product quality and the ability to deliver products in a timely fashion.
 
 CyberDisplay Products 

 
          The display market is highly competitive and is currently dominated by large Asian electronics companies including Sharp, Hitachi, Seiko, Toshiba, Sony, NEC, Sanyo and Display Technologies, a joint venture of IBM and Toshiba. The display market consists of multiple segments, each focusing on different end-user applications applying different technologies. Competition in the display field is based on price and performance characteristics, product quality and the ability to deliver products in a timely fashion. The success of our display product offerings will also depend upon the adoption of our CyberDisplay products in the industry as an alternative to traditional active matrix LCDs and upon our ability to compete against other types of well-established display products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete against these companies and technologies.
 
          There are also a number of active matrix LCD and alternative display technologies in development and production. These technologies include LED, reflective, field emission display, plasma, organic light emitting diode and virtual retinal displays, some of which target the high performance small form factor display markets in which our display products are sold. There are many large and small companies that manufacture or have in development products based on these technologies. Our CyberDisplay products will compete with other displays utilizing these and other competing display technologies.
 
Patents, Proprietary Rights and Licenses
 
          An important part of our product development strategy is to seek, when appropriate, protection for our products and proprietary technology through the use of various United States and foreign patents and contractual arrangements. We intend to prosecute and defend our proprietary technology aggressively. We own more than 60 issued United States patents and more than 40 pending United States patent applications. Many of these United States patents and applications have counterpart foreign patents, foreign applications or international applications through the Patent Cooperation Treaty. In addition, we are licensed by MIT under more than 20 issued United States patents, more than 4 pending United States patent applications, and some foreign counterparts to these United States patents and applications. Our United States patents expire at various dates through July 2016. The United States patents licensed to us by MIT expire during the period running at various dates through March 2016.
 
          In 1985, we obtained a license from MIT to certain patents and patent applications directed to device wafers and related technology. The license grants to Kopin a worldwide license to make, have made, use, and sell products covered by the licensed patents for the life of these patents. The license was exclusive with respect to commercial applications until April 22, 1999, and became non-exclusive at that time. In 1995, we obtained an additional license from MIT to certain optical technology. The license grants to Kopin a worldwide license to make, have made, use, lease and sell products covered by the licensed patents until 2007.
 
          The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive and we cannot assure you that patents will issue from currently pending or future applications or that our existing patents or any new patents that may be issued will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents issue and since publication of discoveries in the scientific and patent literature lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to conceive of inventions covered by pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications or those of our licensors will result in issued patents or that any issued patents will afford protection against a competitor. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not obtain patents that we would need to license, circumvent or cease manufacturing and sales of products covered by these patents, nor can we be sure that licenses, if needed, would be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.
 
           We cannot assure you that foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights or that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to Kopin. Our products might infringe the patent rights of others, whether existing now or in the future. For the same reasons, the products of others could infringe our patent rights. Although we are not aware of any pending or threatened patent litigation against us, we may be notified, from time to time, that we could be or we are infringing certain patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Litigation, which could be very costly or lead to substantial diversion of our resources, even if the outcome is favorable, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. These problems can be particularly severe in foreign countries. In the event of an adverse ruling in litigation against Kopin for patent infringement, we might be required to discontinue the use of certain processes, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to patents of third parties covering the infringing technology. We cannot assure you that licenses will be obtainable on acceptable terms, or at all, or that damages for infringement will not be assessed or that litigation will not occur. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or litigation arising out of any such claims could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as we propose to conduct it.
 
          We also attempt to protect our proprietary information with contractual arrangements and under trade secret laws. We believe that our future success will depend primarily upon the technical expertise, creative skills and management abilities of our officers and key employees rather than on patent ownership. Kopin employees and consultants generally enter into agreements containing provisions with respect to confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. Agreements with consultants generally provide that rights to inventions made by them while consulting for Kopin will be assigned to us unless the assignment of rights is prohibited by the terms of any agreements with their regular employers. Agreements with employees, consultants and collaborators contain provisions intended to further protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. To date, we have had no experience in enforcing these agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached or that we would have adequate remedies for any breaches. Our trade secrets may not be secure from discovery or independent development by competitors.
 
Government Regulations
 
          We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production or cessation of operations. Any failure on our part to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, or otherwise comply with environmental regulations, could subject us to significant future liabilities. In addition, although we believe that our past operations conformed with then applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we have not in the past violated applicable laws or regulations, which violations could result in remediation or other liabilities. We also cannot assure you that past use or disposal of environmentally sensitive materials in conformity with then existing environmental laws and regulations will protect us from required remediation or other liabilities under current or future environmental laws or regulations.
 
Investments in Related Businesses
 
          On October 18, 2000, we acquired Super Epitaxial Products, Inc. (SEP) in a transaction accounted for as a purchase. Under the terms of the agreement, Kopin issued approximately 1.68 million shares of Kopin common stock and assumed the obligation to issue Kopin common stock to satisfy SEP options, with an aggregate total value of approximately $24 million, in exchange for all the outstanding SEP common stock. We consolidated the financial statements of SEP with our financial statements beginning in the fourth quarter of 2000.
 
           In 1998 and 2000 we made investments totaling $3.6 million in Kowon Technology, a manufacturer of optoelectronic products located in South Korea for which we received a 67% equity interest. We consolidated the financial statements of Kowon with our financial statements beginning in the second quarter of 1998. Kowon’s results of operations are principally denominated in the South Korean won and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations.
 
          In 1997 we invested in a privately held company, Kendin Communications, a developer and manufacturer of silicon integrated circuits for high speed data and network communications. On December 31, 2000, our investment in Kendin totaled approximately $3.1 million, representing approximately 22% of the outstanding equity of the company. Our investment in Kendin is accounted for on the equity method.
 
          We may from time to time make further equity investments in these and other companies engaged in certain aspects of the display and electronics industries as part of our business strategy. These investments may not provide us with any financial return or other benefit and any losses by these companies or associated losses in our investments may negatively impact our operating results.
 
Employees
 
          As of December 31, 2000, we and our majority and wholly-owned subsidiaries employed 391 full-time and 7 part-time individuals. Of these, 17 hold Ph.D. degrees in Material Science, Electrical Engineering or Physics. Our management and professional employees have significant prior experience in semiconductor materials, device transistor and display processing, manufacturing and other related technologies. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider relations with our employees to be good.