Item 1.        Business

Except for historical  information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K,
certain  statements set forth herein,  including certain statements in this Item
1, are  forward-looking  statements  that are  dependent  on  certain  risks and
uncertainties  including such factors,  among others, as the timing,  volume and
pricing  of new  orders  for  the  Company's  products,  timely  ramp-up  of new
facilities,  the timely  introduction  of new processes  and  products,  general
conditions  in the  world  economy  and  financial  markets  and  other  factors
described below.  Therefore,  actual outcomes and results may differ  materially
from what is expressed  or forecast in such  forward-looking  statements.  Words
such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate,"
variations of such words and similar  expressions  are intended to identify such
forward looking statements.

General

         Linear   Technology   Corporation   (together  with  its   consolidated
subsidiaries,  "Linear Technology" or the "Company")  designs,  manufactures and
markets a broad line of standard high performance  linear  integrated  circuits.
Applications  for the Company's  products include  telecommunications,  cellular
telephones,  networking products such as optical switches,  notebook and desktop
computers, computer peripherals,  video/multimedia,  industrial instrumentation,
security monitoring devices,  high-end consumer products such as digital cameras
and MP3  players,  complex  medical  devices,  automotive  electronics,  factory
automation,  process  control,  and military and space systems.  The Company was
organized  and  incorporated  in  1981 by a  management  team  with  significant
experience in the design,  manufacture and marketing of linear circuits.  During
fiscal year 2001, the Company  reincorporated  from California to Delaware.  The
Company  competes  primarily  on the  basis of  performance,  functional  value,
quality, reliability and service.

The linear circuit industry

         Semiconductor  components  are the electronic  building  blocks used in
electronic  systems and  equipment.  These  components  are classified as either
discrete  devices (such as individual  transistors)  or integrated  circuits (in
which a number of  transistors  and other  elements  are combined to form a more
complicated electronic circuit). Integrated circuits ("ICs") may be divided into
two general categories,  digital and linear (or analog).  Digital circuits, such
as memory  devices and  microprocessors,  generally  process  on-off  electrical
signals, represented by binary digits, "1" and "0." In contrast, linear circuits
monitor,  condition,  amplify or transform  continuous analog signals associated
with physical properties, such as temperature, pressure, weight, light, sound or
speed, and play an important role in bridging between real world phenomena and a
variety of electronic  systems.  Linear circuits also provide voltage regulation
and power control to electronic systems, especially in hand-held battery powered
systems.

         The Company  believes that several  factors  generally  distinguish the
linear integrated circuit business from the digital circuit business, including:

                  Importance  of  Individual  Design  Contribution.  The Company
           believes that the  creativity of  individual  design  engineers is of
           particular importance in the linear circuit industry. The design of a
           linear integrated  circuit  generally  involves a greater variety and
           less repetition of circuit elements than digital design. In addition,
           the interaction of linear circuit elements is complex,  and the exact
           placement  of  these  elements  in the  circuit  is  critical  to the
           circuit's precision and performance.  Computer-aided  engineering and
           design  tools for linear  circuits  are not as  accurate  in modeling
           circuits as those tools used for  designing  digital  circuits.  As a
           result,  the contributions of a relatively small number of individual
           design engineers are generally of greater importance in the design of
           linear circuits than in the design of digital circuits.

                  Smaller Capital Requirements.  Digital circuit design attempts
           to minimize  device size and  maximize  speed by  increasing  circuit
           densities.  The process  technology  necessary for increased  density
           requires very expensive  wafer  fabrication  equipment.  In contrast,
           linear circuit  design  focuses on precise  matching and placement of
           circuit  elements,  and linear  circuits  often require large feature
           sizes to achieve precision and high voltage  operation.  Accordingly,
           the linear circuit  manufacturing  process generally requires smaller
           initial capital expenditures, particularly for photomasking equipment
           and  clean  room  facilities,   and  less  frequent   replacement  of
           manufacturing equipment because the equipment has, to date, been less
           vulnerable to technological obsolescence.

                  Market Diversity;  Relative Pricing Stability.  Because of the
           varied  applications  for linear  circuits,  manufacturers  typically
           offer a greater  variety of device types to a more  diverse  group of
           customers, who typically



                                       1
<PAGE>

           have smaller  volume  requirements  per device.  As a result,  linear
           circuit  manufacturers  are  often  less  dependent  upon  particular
           products or customers,  linear  circuit  markets are  generally  more
           fragmented,  and  competition  within those  markets tends to be more
           diffused. The Company believes that competition in the linear circuit
           market is particularly dependent upon performance,  functional value,
           quality, reliability and service. As a result, linear circuit pricing
           has generally been more stable than most digital circuit pricing.

                  Less Japanese And Other Asian Competition.  To date,  Japanese
           and other Asian  firms have  concentrated  their  efforts on the high
           volume digital and consumer  linear  markets,  as opposed to the high
           performance end of the linear circuit market served by the Company.

Products and markets

         Linear  Technology  produces a wide range of products  for a variety of
customers  and  markets.  The Company  emphasizes  standard  products to address
larger  markets and to reduce the risk of  dependency  upon a single  customer's
requirements.  The Company  targets the high  performance  segment of the linear
circuit market.  "High  performance" is characterized by higher precision,  both
high power or micropower,  higher speed, more subsystem  integration on a single
chip and many other special  features.  The Company focuses virtually all of its
design efforts on proprietary  products which, at the time of introduction,  are
original designs by the Company offering unique characteristics  differentiating
them from those offered by competitors.

         Although the types and mix of linear products vary by application,  the
principal product categories are as follows:

         Amplifiers - These circuits  amplify the voltage or output current of a
device. The amplification  represents the ratio of the output voltage or current
to the input voltage or current.  The most widely used device is the operational
amplifier due to its versatility and precision.

         High Speed  Amplifiers - These  amplifiers are used to amplify  signals
above  5MHz for  applications  such as  video,  fast data  acquisition  and data
communication.

         Voltage Regulators - Voltage regulators control the voltage of a device
or circuit at a specified level. This category of product consists  primarily of
two types,  the linear  regulator  and the switch  mode  regulator.  Switch mode
regulators  are also used to  convert  voltage up or down  within an  electronic
system for power management and battery charging.

         Voltage  References - These  circuits  serve as  electronic  benchmarks
providing  a constant  voltage for system  usage.  Precision  references  have a
constant output independent of input, temperature changes or time.

         Interface  -  Interface  circuits  act as an  intermediary  to transfer
digital signals between or within electronic systems. These circuits are used in
computers, modems, instruments and remote data acquisition systems.

         Data Converters - These circuits  change linear  (analog)  signals into
digital  signals,  or vice versa,  and are often referred to as data acquisition
subsystems, A/D converters and D/A converters. The accuracy and speed with which
the analog  signal is converted to its digital  counterpart  is considered a key
characteristic for these devices.

         Radio Frequency  Circuits - These circuits include mixers,  modulators,
demodulators, amplifiers, drivers, and power detectors and controllers. They are
used in  wireless  and  cable  infrastructure,  cellphones,  and  wireless  data
communications.

         Other - Other linear circuits include buffers,  battery monitors, motor
controllers,   hot  swap   circuits,   comparators,   sample-and-hold   devices,
modulators/demodulators,  drivers  and  filters,  both  switched  capacitor  and
continuous  time,  which are used to limit  and/or  manipulate  signals  in such
applications  as  cellular   telephones,   base  stations,   navigation   system
instrumentation and detection circuitry.

         Linear   circuits   are   used  in   various   applications   including
telecommunications,  cellular  telephones,  networking  products such as optical
switches,    notebook    and   desktop    computers,    computer    peripherals,
video/multimedia,   industrial  instrumentation,  security  monitoring  devices,
high-end  consumer  products  such as digital  cameras and MP3 players,  complex
medical devices,  automotive electronics,  factory automation,  process control,
and military and space systems.  The Company focuses its product development and
marketing efforts on high performance applications where the Company believes it
can  position  itself  competitively  with  respect to product  performance  and
functional value.

                                       2
<PAGE>


The  following  table sets  forth,  examples  of product  families by end market
application and end-market:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                   <C>                                                       <C>
Market                End Applications/Products                                 Example Product Families
                                                                        --
Industrial             Flow or rate metering                             |
                       Position/pressure/                                |
                       temperature sensing and control                   |
                       Robotics                                          |
                       Energy management                                 |
                       Process control data communication                |
                       Network and factory automation                    |
                       Security and surveillance systems                 |
                       Curve tracers                                     |      Data acquisition products
                       Logic analyzers                                   |      High performance operational
                       Multimeters                                       |      amplifiers
                       Oscilloscopes                                     |      Interface (RS 485/232) products
                       Test equipment                                    |      Instrumentation amplifiers
                       Voltmeters                                        |      Line drivers
                       Network analyzers                                 |      Line receivers
                       Scales                                            |      Precision comparators
                       Analytic instruments                              |      Precision voltage references
                       Gas chromatic graphs                              |      Monolithic filters
                       EKG, CAT scanners                                 |      Switching voltage regulators
                       DNA analysis                                      |      Voltage references
                       Blood analyzers                                   |      Hot swap circuits
                                                                         |      DC-DC converters
Space/Military         Communications                                    |
and Automotive         Satellite                                         |
                       Guidance and navigation systems                   |
                       Displays                                          |
                       Firing control                                    |
                       Ground support equipment                          |
                       Radar systems                                     |
                       Sonar systems                                     |
                       Surveillance equipment                            |
                       GPS                                               |
                       Entertainment                                     |
                       Safety systems                                    |
                       Suspension systems                              __|
                                                                        --
Communications         Cellular phones (CDMA/WCDMA/GPRS/3G)              |      DC - DC converters
                       Cellular basestations                             |      V.35 transceiver
                       Pagers                                            |      High-speed amplifiers
                       Modems/fax machines                               |      Line drivers
                       PBX switches                                      |      Line receivers
                       GPS systems                                       |      Low noise operational amplifiers
                       Optical networking                                |      Micropower products
                       ADSL modems                                       |      Power management
                       Channel service unit/data service unit            |      Switched capacitor filters
                       Cable modems                                      |      Voltage references
                       Internet appliances                               |      Voltage regulators
                       Servers                                           |      Data acquisition products
                       Routers                                           |      Hot Swap controllers
                       Switches                                          |      Multi-protocol circuits
                                                                         |      Thermal Electric Cooler
                                                                         |      Power Amplifier Control
                                                                         |      Modulators/Demodulators
                                                                         |      Battery Chargers
                                                                       __|      Multi-Phase Switching Regulators

                                       3
<PAGE>

                                                                       --
Computer               Communications/interface modems                   |      Battery charging
                       Disk drives                                       |      DC - DC converters
                       Notebook computers                                |      Data acquisition products
                       Desktop computers                                 |      Hot Swap controllers
                       Workstations                                      |      Line drivers
                       LCD displays/monitors                             |      Line receivers
                       Plotters/printers                                 |      Low drop out linear regulators
                       Digital still cameras                             |      Micropower products
                       Power supplies                                    |      Multi-Phase Switching Regulators
                       Handheld PCs                                      |      PCMCIA power switching
                       Battery chargers                                  |      Power management
                       Video/multimedia                                  |
                       MP3 players                                       |
                       PDAs                                              |
                       Pet Robots                                      __|
</TABLE>


Marketing and customers

         The Company  markets its  products  worldwide,  through a direct  sales
staff,  electronics  distributors,  and a small  network  of  independent  sales
representatives, to a broad range of customers in diverse industries. Within the
United States,  in late fiscal 2001, the Company  transitioned  its sales effort
from a network of independent sales representatives  primarily to a direct sales
staff.  Additionally  in fiscal  2001 the  Company  reduced  its number of large
national distributors from two to one. The Company sells to over 15,000 Original
Equipment  Manufacturer  (OEM)  customers  directly  and/or  through  the  sales
distributor  channel.  Distributor  and  direct  customers  generally  buy on an
individual purchase order basis,  rather than pursuant to long-term  agreements.
Of the Company's domestic  distributors,  one domestic distributor accounted for
16% of net sales and 17% of accounts  receivable  during fiscal 2002, and 12% of
net sales and 13% of accounts  receivable  during fiscal 2001, two  distributors
accounted  for   approximately  14%  and  11%  of  net  sales  in  fiscal  2000.
Distributors  are not end  customers,  but rather  serve as a channel of sale to
many end users of the  Company's  products.  No other  distributor  or  customer
accounted for 10% or more of net sales for fiscal 2002, 2001 or 2000.

         The  Company's   sales   organization  is  divided  into  domestic  and
international  regions, with sales offices located in the following metropolitan
areas: Seattle,  Baltimore,  Denver,  Philadelphia,  Raleigh,  Chicago,  Dallas,
Austin,  Houston,  San  Jose,  Los  Angeles,   Irvine,  San  Diego,  Huntsville,
Minneapolis,   Cleveland,  Portland,  London,  Stockholm,  Helsinki,  Ascheberg,
Munich,  Stuttgart,  Paris, Lyon, Tokyo, Osaka, Taipei,  Singapore,  Seoul, Hong
Kong,  Bejing  and  Shanghai.   The  Company's   products  typically  require  a
sophisticated technical sales effort.

         The Company has agreements with 4 independent sales  representatives in
the United States and 2 in Canada. Commissions are paid to sales representatives
upon shipments  either  directly from the Company or through  distributors.  The
Company has agreements with 2 independent  distributors  in North America,  5 in
Europe, 2 in Japan, 2 each in China and Taiwan, and 1 each in Korea,  Singapore,
Malaysia, Thailand, South Africa, Philippines, India, Israel, Australia, and New
Zealand. The Company's  distributors  purchase the Company's products for resale
to  customers.  Additionally,  domestic  distributors  often  sell  competitors'
products.  Under certain  agreements,  the Company's  domestic  distributors are
entitled to price  protection  on inventory if the Company  lowers the prices of
its products.  The agreements also generally permit  distributors to exchange up
to 3% of purchases on a semi-annual  basis.  See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 13.1 of this
Form 10-K,  which contains  certain  information  included in the Company's 2002
Annual Report to Stockholders.

         During  fiscal  2002,  2001 and 2000,  export  sales were  primarily to
Europe,  Japan and Asia and  represented  approximately  64%, 54% and 54% of net
sales,  respectively.  Because most of the Company's export sales are billed and
payable in United  States  dollars,  export  sales are  generally  not  directly
subject to fluctuating currency exchange rates. A strengthening of the dollar in
relation to other currencies may,  however,  create pricing  pressure.  Although
export sales are subject to certain control restrictions,  including approval by
the Office of Export Administration of the United States Department of Commerce,
the Company  has not  experienced  any  material  difficulties  relating to such
restrictions.

                                       4
<PAGE>

         The  Company's  backlog of released  and firm orders was  approximately
$46.1  million at June 30, 2002 as compared  with $71.5 million at July 1, 2001.
In addition to its backlog,  the Company had $28.8  million of products  sold to
and held by domestic  distributors at June 30, 2002 as compared to $31.8 million
at  July  1,  2001.  Generally,  shipments  to  domestic  distributors  are  not
recognized  as  sales  until  the  distributor  has  sold  the  products  to its
customers.  The Company  defines  backlog as consisting of distributor  stocking
orders and OEM orders for which a delivery  schedule  has been  specified by the
OEM  customer  for  product  shipment  within six months.  Although  the Company
receives volume purchase  orders,  most of these purchase orders are cancelable,
generally  outside  of  thirty  days  of  delivery,   by  the  customer  without
significant  penalty.  Lead-time for the release of purchase orders depends upon
the scheduling  practices of the  individual  customer and the  availability  of
individual  products,  so the rate of booking  new orders  varies  from month to
month. The ordering practices of many semiconductor customers has shifted from a
practice of placing orders with delivery dates  extending over several months to
the practice of placing  orders with shorter  delivery dates in concert with the
Company's lead times. Also, the Company's  agreements with certain  distributors
provide for price  protection.  Consequently,  the Company does not believe that
its backlog at any time is  necessarily  representative  of actual sales for any
succeeding period.

         In the operating  history of the Company,  seasonality  of business has
not been a material  factor,  although the results of  operations  for the first
fiscal quarter of each year are impacted  slightly by customary summer holidays,
particularly in Europe.

         The Company warrants that its products,  until they are incorporated in
other  products,  are free from defects in workmanship and materials and conform
to the Company's published specifications.  Warranty expense has been nominal to
date.

Manufacturing

         The  Company's  wafer  fabrication  and  manufacturing  facilities  are
located in Milpitas,  California  ("Hillview") and Camas,  Washington ("Camas").
Each  facility  was  built to  Company  specifications  to  support  a number of
sophisticated process technologies and to satisfy rigorous quality assurance and
reliability  requirements  of United States  military  specifications  and major
worldwide OEM  customers.  All of the Company's  manufacturing  facilities  have
received ISO 9001/ISO 9002 certification.

         The Company's wafer fabrication  facility located in Camas,  Washington
commenced  manufacturing  operations  in the  second  half of fiscal  1997,  the
facility is used to produce  six-inch  diameter wafers for use in the production
of the Company's  devices.  In fiscal 1999, the Company added 40,000 square feet
to the Camas facility and during fiscal 2001 the Company purchased an additional
16.5 acres  adjacent to its Camas facility for future  expansion.  The Company's
Hillview facility located in Milpitas,  California was completed in fiscal 2001.
Production  for this six-inch  wafer  fabrication  plant  commenced in the third
quarter  of fiscal  2001.  The  Company  currently  uses  similar  manufacturing
processes in both its Hillview and Camas  facilities.  During  fiscal 2002,  the
Company  discontinued  production in its oldest 4-inch wafer  fabrication  plant
located at the Milpitas, California headquarters.

         The Company's  basic process  technologies  include high speed bipolar,
high  gain,  low  noise  bipolar,   radio   frequency   bipolar,   silicon  gate
complementary  metal-oxide  semiconductor  ("CMOS")  and BiCMOS  processes.  The
Company also has two proprietary  complementary bipolar processes. The Company's
bipolar  processes are typically  used in linear  circuits  where high voltages,
high  power,  high  frequency,  low noise or  effective  component  matching  is
necessary.  The Company's proprietary silicon gate CMOS processes provide switch
characteristics  required  for  many  linear  circuit  functions,  as well as an
efficient  mechanism for combining linear and digital circuits on the same chip.
The Company's CMOS processes were developed to address the specific requirements
of linear circuit functions.  The complementary bipolar processes were developed
to address higher speed analog  functions.  The Company's basic processes can be
combined  with a  number  of  adjunct  processes  to  create a  diversity  of IC
components.  A minor portion of the Company's wafer manufacturing,  particularly
very small features size CMOS products, is done at an independent foundry.

         The  accompanying  chart  provides a brief overview of the Company's IC
process capabilities:

                                       5
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            PROCESS CAPABILITIES

Process Families                 Benefit/Market Advantage                        Product Application
----------------                 ------------------------                        -------------------
<S>                              <C>                                             <C>
P-Well SiGate CMOS               General purpose, stability                      Switches, filters, data
                                                                                 conversion, chopper amplifiers

N-Well SiGate CMOS               Speed, density, stability                       Switches, data conversion

BiCMOS                           Speed, density, stability, flexibility          Data conversion

High Power Bipolar               Power (100 watts), high current                 Linear and smart power products,
                                 (10 amps)                                       switching regulators

Low Noise Bipolar                Precision, low current, low noise,              Op amps, voltage references
                                 high gain

High Speed Bipolar               Fast, wideband, video high data                 Op amps, video, comparators,
                                 rate                                            switching regulators

JFETS                            Speed, precision, low current                   Op amps, switches, sample and
                                                                                 hold

Rad - Hard                       Total dose radiation hardened                   All space products

Complementary Bipolar            Speed, low distortion, precision                Op amps, video amps, converters

CMOS/ Thin Films                 Stability, precision                            Filters, data conversion

High Voltage CMOS                High voltage general-purpose,                   Switches, chopper amplifiers
                                 compatible with Bipolar

Bipolar/Thin Films               Precision, stability, matching                  Converters, amplifiers

RF Bipolar                       High speed, low power                           RF wireless, high speed
                                                                                 data communications
</TABLE>


         The Company  emphasizes  quality and  reliability  from initial product
design through  manufacturing,  packaging and testing. The Company's design team
focuses on fault  tolerant  design and optimum  location of circuit  elements to
enhance reliability.  Linear Technology's wafer fabrication facilities have been
designed to minimize wafer handling and the impact of operator error through the
use of  microprocessor-controlled  equipment.  The Company has obtained  Defense
Supply Center,  Columbus (DSCC) qualification to participate in high reliability
JAN38510 (class B) military business.  The Company has also received Jan Class S
Microcircuit  Certification,  which enables the Company to manufacture  products
intended  for use in space or for critical  applications  where  replacement  is
extremely difficult or impossible and where reliability is imperative.

         The Company is certified to comply with the ISO 9001/9002 international
quality standard and QS 9000 automotive  quality  standard.  This  certification
covers the Company's design,  manufacturing and service  organizations and is an
important  standard  especially  in the  European  marketplace.  The Company has
received MIL-PRF-38535  Qualified  Manufacturers Listing (QML) certification for
military products from DSCC.

         Processed wafers are sent to either the Company's  assembly facility in
Penang,  Malaysia  or to offshore  independent  assembly  contractors  where the
wafers are separated into individual circuits and packaged.  The Penang facility
opened in October 1994 and services  approximately  60% to 90% of the  Company's
assembly  requirements for plastic packages.  The Company completed an extension
of approximately  75,000 square feet to the Penang facility in late fiscal 2000.
Significant  assembly  subcontractors  used by the  Company are  Carsem(M)  Sdn,
Carsem Semiconductor Sdn and Unisem(M) Sdn located in



                                       6
<PAGE>

Malaysia.  The Company also maintains  domestic  assembly  operations to satisfy
particular customer  requirements,  especially those for military  applications,
and to provide rapid turnaround for new product development.

         After  assembly,  most  products  are sent to the  Company's  Singapore
facility for final testing,  inspection and packaging as required. Some products
are returned to Milpitas for the same back-end processing.

         Linear  Technology from time to time has experienced  competition  from
other manufacturers seeking assembly of circuits by independent contractors. The
Company  currently  believes that alternative  foreign assembly sources could be
obtained without significant interruption.  Foreign assembly is subject to risks
normally  associated  with  foreign  operations,   including  changes  in  local
governmental  policies,  currency  fluctuations,  transportation  delays and the
imposition of export controls or increased import tariffs.

         From time to time  certain  materials,  including  silicon  wafers  and
plastic molding  compounds,  have been in short supply.  To date the Company has
experienced  no delays in obtaining  raw  materials  which could have  adversely
affected production.  As is typical in the industry,  the Company must allow for
significant lead times in delivery of its materials.

         Manufacturing of individual  products,  from wafer fabrication  through
final  testing,  may take from ten to sixteen  weeks.  Since the Company sells a
wide  variety of device  types,  and  customers  typically  expect  delivery  of
products within a short period of time following order, the Company  maintains a
substantial work-in-process and finished goods inventory.

         Based on its anticipated production requirements,  the Company believes
it will have  sufficient  available  resources  and  manufacturing  capacity for
fiscal 2003.

Patents, licenses and trademarks

         The Company has been awarded over 166 United  States and  International
patents, and has filed 103 additional patent applications.  Although the Company
believes  that  these  patents  and  patent  applications  may have  value,  the
Company's future success will depend primarily upon the technical  abilities and
creative skills of its personnel, rather than on its patents.

         As is common in the  semiconductor  industry,  the Company has at times
been notified of claims that it may be infringing  patents issued to others.  If
it appears  necessary or  desirable,  the Company may seek  licenses  under such
patents,  although there can be no assurance that all necessary  licenses can be
obtained by the Company on acceptable terms.

         In  addition,  from time to time the Company may  negotiate  with other
companies  to license  patents,  products or process  technology  for use in its
business.

Government sales

         The Company currently has no material U.S. Government contracts.

Risks and Competition

         In  addition  to the  risks  discussed  below  and  elsewhere  in  this
"Business section", see the "Factors Affecting Future Operating Results" section
included in Exhibit 13.1-3,  "Management's Discussion and Analysis," for further
discussion of other risks and uncertainties that may affect the business.

Semiconductor Industry

         The semiconductor  market has historically been cyclical and subject to
significant economic downturns at various times, including the recent decline in
demand  experienced  during  fiscal 2002.  Many OEM customers  have  significant
excess inventories in their channels thus making it difficult for the Company to
know real end user demand. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may
cause the Company to experience  substantial  period-to-period  fluctuations  in
results of operations.

         Typically,  the  Company's  ability  to  meet  its  revenue  goals  and
projections  is dependent  to a large extent on the orders it receives  from its
customers within the period.  Historically,  the Company has maintained low lead
times,  which have  enabled  customers to place orders close to their true needs
for  product.  In  defining  its goals and  projections  the  Company  considers
inventory on hand,  backlog,  production cycles and expected order patterns from
customers.  If the Company's estimates in these areas become inaccurate,  it may
not be able to meet  its  revenue  goals  and  projections.  In  addition,  some
customers


                                       7
<PAGE>

require the Company to  manufacture  product and have it available for shipment,
even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding  commitment  to purchase
all, or even some, of the product.

         The  semiconductor  industry is  characterized  by rapid  technological
change, price erosion, occasional shortages of materials,  capacity constraints,
variations in  manufacturing  efficiencies,  and  significant  expenditures  for
capital  equipment  and product  development.  New product  introductions  are a
critical  factor for future sales growth and sustained  profitability.  Although
the Company  believes that the high  performance  segment of the linear  circuit
market  is  generally   less  affected  by  price  erosion  or  by   significant
expenditures   for  capital   equipment  and  product   development  than  other
semiconductor  market sectors,  future operating results may reflect substantial
period to period fluctuations due to these or other factors.

Manufacturing

         The Company relies on its internal manufacturing  facilities located in
California and Washington to fabricate most of its wafers;  however, the Company
is  dependent  on outside  silicon  foundries  for a small  portion of its wafer
fabrication.  The Company  could be  adversely  affected in the event of a major
earthquake, which could cause temporary loss of capacity, loss of raw materials,
and damage to  manufacturing  equipment.  Additionally the Company relies on its
internal and external assembly and testing  facilities  located in Singapore and
Malaysia.  The Company is subject to economic and  political  risks  inherent to
international  operations,  including  changes in local  governmental  policies,
currency  fluctuations,  transportation  delays  and the  imposition  of  export
controls or increased import tariffs. The Company could be adversely affected if
any such changes are applicable to the Company's foreign operations.

         The Company's manufacturing yields are a function of product design and
process technology,  both of which are developed by the Company. The manufacture
and design of integrated  circuits is highly complex.  To the extent the Company
does not achieve  acceptable  manufacturing  yields or there are delays in wafer
fabrication, its results of operations could be adversely affected.


Litigation

         The Company is subject to various  legal  proceedings  arising out of a
wide range of matters,  including,  among  others,  patent suits and  employment
claims.  From time to time,  as is typical in the  semiconductor  industry,  the
Company receives notice from third parties alleging that the Company's  products
or processes infringe such third parties'  intellectual  property rights. If the
Company is unable to obtain a necessary license, and one or more of its products
or processes is determined to infringe any such intellectual  property rights of
others, a court might enjoin the Company from further manufacture and/or sale of
the affected  products.  In that case,  the Company would need to reengineer the
affected  products  or  processes  in  such  a  way  as  to  avoid  the  alleged
infringement,  which may or may not be possible. An adverse result in litigation
arising from such a claim could  involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a
portion of the Company's  products,  a reduction or the elimination of the value
of related  inventories,  and/or the assessment of a substantial  monetary award
for damages related to past sales. The Company does not believe that the current
suits  will have a  material  impact on its  business  or  financial  condition.
However,  current  lawsuits and any future  lawsuits  will divert  resources and
could  result  in the  payment  of  substantial  damages.  See  "Item  3.  Legal
Proceedings."


Key Personnel

         The Company's performance is substantially dependent on the performance
of the executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of the key
officers,  technical  personnel or other key employees  could harm the business.
The success of the  Company  depends on its ability to  identify,  hire,  train,
develop and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel.  Failure
to attract and retain the necessary  technical and  managerial  personnel  could
harm the Company.

Competition

         Linear  Technology  competes  in the high  performance  segment  of the
linear market.  The Company's  competitors  include Analog Devices,  Inc., Maxim
Integrated Products,  Inc., Motorola,  Inc., Micrel Inc., National Semiconductor
Corporation and Texas  Instruments,  Inc.  Competition  among  manufacturers  of
linear integrated circuits is intense, and certain of the Company's  competitors
may have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing
resources  than the  Company.  The  principal  elements of  competition  include
product  performance,  functional  value,  quality  and  reliability,  technical
service and support, price, diversity of product line and delivery capabilities.
The Company believes it competes


                                       8
<PAGE>

favorably with respect to these factors, although it may be at a disadvantage in
comparison to larger companies with broader product lines and greater  technical
service and support capabilities.

         Although  the  Company   believes  that  it  has  the  product   lines,
manufacturing  facilities and technical and financial  resources for its current
operations,  sales and profitability can be significantly  affected by the above
and other factors.  Additionally, the Company's common stock could be subject to
significant  price  volatility  should  sales and/or  earnings  fail to meet the
expectations of the investment community. Furthermore, stocks of high technology
companies  are subject to extreme price and volume  fluctuations  that are often
unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies.


Research and development

         The  Company's  ability to compete  depends in part upon its  continued
introduction  of  technologically  innovative  products  on a timely  basis.  To
facilitate this need, the Company has organized its product  development efforts
into four groups: power management,  signal conditioning,  mixed signal and high
frequency.  Linear Technology's  product development strategy emphasizes a broad
line of standard products to address a diversity of customer  applications.  The
Company's  research and development  efforts are directed primarily at designing
and introducing  new products and, to a lesser extent,  developing new processes
and advanced packaging.

         As of June  30,  2002,  the  Company  had  681  employees  involved  in
research,  development and engineering  related functions of which 336 employees
are engaged in new product design.  The Company had 214 employees engaged in new
product  design at its  Milpitas  headquarters  as well as 14  employees  at its
Singapore design center,  46 employees at its Boston design center, 24 employees
at its Colorado design center,  12 employees at its New Hampshire design center,
11  employees  at its Raleigh  design  center  which  opened in fiscal  2000,  7
employees at its Santa Barbara  design center which opened in fiscal 2001, and 8
at its Burlington design center which opened in fiscal 2002.

         For  the  fiscal  years  2002,   2001,  and  2000,  the  Company  spent
approximately $79.8 million, $102.5 million, and $78.3 million, respectively, on
research and  development.  The  reduction in expenses in 2002 from 2001 was due
primarily  to a reduction  in profit  sharing  expense.  Headcount  in total R&D
personnel  increased  from 670 in fiscal 2001 to 681 in fiscal 2002.  Within R&D
the number of actual circuit designers increased from 139 to 161 in fiscal 2002.

Environmental regulation

         Federal,  state  and local  regulations  impose  various  environmental
controls on the storage,  use,  discharge and disposal of certain  chemicals and
gases used in  semiconductor  processing.  The  Company's  facilities  have been
designed to comply with these  regulations,  and the Company  believes  that its
activities  conform  to present  environmental  regulations.  Increasing  public
attention has, however,  been focused on the environmental impact of electronics
manufacturing  operations.  While the  Company to date has not  experienced  any
materially adverse business effects from environmental regulations, there can be
no assurance  that changes in such  regulations  will not require the Company to
acquire costly remediation  equipment or to incur substantial expenses to comply
with such  regulations.  Any failure by semiconductor  companies,  including the
Company, to control the storage,  use or disposal of, or adequately restrict the
discharge  of  hazardous  substances  could  also  subject  them to  significant
liabilities.

Employees

         As of June 30, 2002, the Company had 2,691 employees,  including 256 in
marketing  and sales,  681 in  research,  development  and  engineering  related
functions,  1,664  in  manufacturing  and  production,  and  90  in  management,
administration  and finance.  The Company's success depends upon a number of key
employees,  the loss of whom could  adversely  impact the  Company.  The Company
believes  that its future  success will depend in large part upon its ability to
attract,  retain and motivate highly skilled employees.  In the San Jose/Silicon
Valley area, where the Company's principal  facilities are located,  competition
for such employees is intense.

         The Company has never had a work stoppage, no employees are represented
by a labor organization, and the Company considers its employee relations to be
good.


                                       9
<PAGE>

Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The executive  officers of the Company,  and their ages as of September
9, 2002, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name                            Age              Position
----                            ---              --------
<S>                             <C>              <C>
Robert H. Swanson, Jr...........64               Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Clive B. Davies.................59               President
Paul Chantalat..................52               Vice President Quality and Reliability
Paul Coghlan....................57               Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer
Robert C. Dobkin................58               Vice President of Engineering and Chief Technical Officer
Lothar Maier....................47               Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
Richard Nickson.................52               Vice President of North American Sales
David A. Quarles................36               Vice President of International Sales
David B. Bell...................46               Vice President and General Manager, Power Business Unit
William Gross...................53               Vice President and General Manager, Signal Conditioning Unit
Robert Reay.....................41               Vice President and General Manager, Mixed Signal Business Unit
Arthur F. Schneiderman..........60               Secretary
</TABLE>

         Mr.  Swanson,  a founder of the Company,  has served as Chairman of the
Board of Directors and Chief  Executive  Officer since April 1999,  and prior to
that time as President,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a director of the Company
since its incorporation in September 1981. From August 1968 to July 1981, he was
employed   in  various   positions   at   National   Semiconductor   Corporation
("National"),  a manufacturer of integrated  circuits,  including Vice President
and General  Manager of the Linear  Integrated  Circuit  Operation  and Managing
Director in Europe.  Mr. Swanson has a BS degree in Industrial  Engineering from
Northeastern University.

         Dr.  Davies  has  served  as  President  since  April  1999 and as Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer from January 1989 to April 1999. From July
1982 to January 1989, Dr. Davies held the position of Vice President of Quality,
Reliability and Customer Service.  From April 1971 to July 1982, he was employed
in  various  positions  at  National,  including  Group  Director  for  Advanced
Technology, Group Managing Director of the Singapore and Hong Kong Manufacturing
Operations  and  Business  Director  of  Standard  Linear   Integrated   Circuit
Operations.  Dr. Davies received a B.Sc. (Honors) in Physics in 1964 and a Ph.D.
in Physics in 1967 from the University of Reading, England.

         Mr.  Chantalat has served as Vice President of Quality and  Reliability
since  July  1991.  From  January  1989 to July 1991,  he held the  position  of
Director of Quality and Reliability.  From July 1983 to January 1989 he held the
position of Manager of Quality and Reliability. From February 1976 to July 1983,
he was employed in various positions at National, where his most recent position
was Group Manager of Manufacturing Quality Engineering. Mr. Chantalat received a
BS and an MS in  Electrical  Engineering  from  Stanford  University in 1970 and
1972, respectively.

         Mr. Coghlan has served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company since December 1986.  From October 1981 until joining the
Company, he was employed in various positions at GenRad, Inc., a manufacturer of
automated test  equipment,  including  Corporate  Controller,  Vice President of
Corporate  Quality and most recently Vice  President and General  Manager of the
Structural Test Products Division.  Before joining GenRad, Inc., Mr. Coghlan was
associated  with Price  Waterhouse  & Company  in the  United  States and Paris,
France for twelve years.  Mr. Coghlan  received a BA from Boston College in 1966
and an MBA from Babson College in 1968.

         Mr. Dobkin,  a founder of the Company,  has served as Vice President of
Engineering and Chief Technical  Officer since April 1999, and as Vice President
of  Engineering  from  September  1981 to April 1999.  From January 1969 to July
1981,  he was employed in various  positions at National,  where his most recent
position was Director of Advanced Circuit Development.  Mr. Dobkin has extensive
experience  in linear  circuit  design.  Mr. Dobkin  attended the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

         Mr. Maier joined the Company as Chief Operating  Officer in April 1999.
From 1983 to 1999,  he was  employed  at Cypress  Semiconductor  Corporation  in
various  management  positions,  mostly  recently as Senior Vice  President  and
Executive  Vice  President of Worldwide  Operations.  Mr. Maier received a BS in
Chemical Engineering in 1978 from the University of California at Berkeley.

                                       10
<PAGE>

         Mr.  Nickson has served as Vice President of North American Sales since
October  2001.  From  February  1998  until  July 2001,  he was  European  Sales
Director. From August 1993 until January 1998, he held the position of Northwest
Area Sales  Manager.  From  April  1991 to August  1993,  he was  President  and
Co-founder of Focus Technical  Sales.  From August 1983 to April 1991, he served
with National  Semiconductor in various positions where his most recent position
was Vice  President  of North  American  Sales.  Mr.  Nickson  was  Founder  and
President of Micro-Tex,  Inc. from June 1980 to August 1983.  Prior to 1980, Mr.
Nickson  spent seven years in  semiconductor  sales,  including  four years with
Texas Instruments.  He received a B.S. in Mathematics from Illinois Institute of
Technology in 1971.

         Mr. Quarles has served as Vice President of  International  Sales since
August  2001.  From October 2000 to August 2001 he held the position of Director
of Marketing.  From July 1996 to September 2000 he held the position of Director
of  Asia-Pacific  Sales  stationed in Singapore.  From June 1991 to July 1996 he
worked as a Sales  Engineer and later as District Sales Manager for the Bay Area
sales team. Prior to Linear, Mr. Quarles worked two years as a Sales Engineer at
National  Semiconductor.  Mr. Quarles received a BS in Electrical Engineering in
1988 from Cornell University.

         Mr. Bell has served as Vice President and General  Manager of the Power
Business  Unit since January 2002 and as General  Manager of the Power  Business
Unit since February 1999. From June 1994 to January 1999 he held the position of
Manager  of  Strategic  Product  Development.  From July 1991 to May 1994 he was
employed as Director of  Electrical  Engineering  at IDEO  Product  Development.
Prior to July 1991 Mr. Bell was employed in various  management and  engineering
positions at Bell Associates,  Inc., Sydis, Inc., and Hewlett Packard,  Inc. Mr.
Bell has a BS degree in Electrical Engineering from the Massachusetts  Institute
of Technology.

         Mr.  Gross has  served as Vice  President  and  General  Manager of the
Signal  Conditioning  Business Unit since January 2002 and as General Manager of
the Signal Conditioning  Business Unit since February 1999. He held the position
of Design Manager from July 1989 to February 1999  responsible  for  amplifiers,
comparators and voltage references.  Previously he was Design Manager at Elantec
from  January  1984 to June 1989.  From  January  1973 to December  1983 he held
several  positions  at National  Semiconductor,  including  Design  Engineer and
Design  Manager  of  the  Japan  Design  Center.  Mr.  Gross  received  a BS  in
electronics  engineering from California Polytechnic University in 1971 and a MS
in electrical engineering from University of Arizona in 1973.

         Mr. Reay has served as Vice President and General  Manager of the Mixed
Signal  Business  Unit since  January  2002 and as General  Manager of the Mixed
Signal  Business Units since November 2000. From January 1992 to October 2000 he
was the Design Engineering Manager responsible for a variety of product families
including interface, supervisors, battery chargers and hot swap controllers. Mr.
Reay joined Linear  Technology in April 1988 as a design engineer after spending
four years at GE  Intersil.  Mr. Reay  received a B.S.  and M.S.  in  electrical
engineering from Stanford University in 1984.

         Mr. Schneiderman has served as Secretary of the Company since September
1981.  He is an  attorney  and a  member  of the law  firm of  Wilson,  Sonsini,
Goodrich & Rosati, Professional Corporation, general counsel to the Company.
