Item 1.    Business. 

 

General 

 

LightPath Technologies, Inc. (“LightPath” or “Company”) is a manufacturer and integrator of families of precision molded aspheric optics, high-performance fiber-optic collimators, isolators, GRADIUM® glass lenses and other optical materials used to produce products that manipulate light. We design, develop, manufacture and distribute optical components and assemblies utilizing optical manufacturing processes. Through the end of fiscal 2003, we managed our business through two operating segments: Optical Lens and Laser Components. Beginning with fiscal 2004 we will manage and report our business without multiple reporting segments. 

 

Optical Lens:    We manufacture and sell the following types of Optical Lens products: (i) Precision Molded Optics (ii) GRADIUM® glass lenses and (iii) collimator products. Optical Lens applications include defense, medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors, and environmental monitoring. Molded aspheres are also used in telecom applications to couple laser to fiber, fiber to fiber and fiber to other optical devices. Collimators are assemblies that are used to straighten and make parallel diverging light as it exits a fiber. 

 

Laser Components:    We manufacture and sell the following types of Laser Component products: (i) isolators and (ii) custom modules and assemblies. An isolator is used to prevent the back reflection of optical signals that can degrade optical transmitter and amplifier performance. Isolators are used throughout fiber optic systems whenever light must enter or exit the fiber. 

 

LightPath was incorporated under Delaware law in June 1992 as the successor to LightPath Technologies Limited Partnership, a New Mexico limited partnership, formed in 1989, and its predecessor, Integrated Solar Technologies Corporation, a New Mexico corporation, organized in 1985. We completed our initial public offering on February 22, 1996. From our inception in 1985 until June 1996, we were classified as a “development stage enterprise” that engaged in basic research and development with an initial objective to improve solar energy technology. Through the years, we realized that our early discoveries had much broader application, and we expanded our focus to imaging optics applications. By 1997, our operational focus began to shift to product development and sales of GRADIUM® glass lenses. 

 

During fiscal 1998, sales of lenses to the traditional optics market continued with increases in sales of lenses used in the YAG laser market, catalog and distributor sales and lenses used in the semiconductor wafer inspection markets. During this time, we reorganized internally and realigned our marketing efforts with the purpose of expanding our focus to include markets such as optoelectronics, photonics and solar due to the number of potential customer inquiries into the ability of GRADIUM glass to solve optoelectronic problems, specifically in the areas of fiber telecommunications in addition to the traditional optics market. In fiscal 1998, we began to explore the development of products and a strategy to enter the telecom optical components market. This strategy was built around automated production of telecom components using laser fusion and fiber attachment techniques we developed. In designing our optoelectronic devices, we focused on automation of the manufacturing process. Although many other manufacturers in this industry rely on low labor cost offshore production to control costs, we believe that automation of the manufacturing process can yield significant cost savings over the long term. Our patented laser fusion and fiber attachment techniques are highly automated, and we believe these techniques provided improved quality and flexibility to increase manufacturing capacity in response to growth in demand. Our automation theme was expanded with our fiscal 2000 acquisition of Horizon Photonics, Inc. (“Horizon”), a California corporation originally founded in July 1997, where we acquired the use of robotic systems in manufacturing isolators. 

 

Horizon utilized automated production platforms to manufacture passive optical components for the telecommunications and data communications markets. We acquired all of the outstanding shares of Horizon for approximately 1.4 million shares of our Class A Common Stock and $1 million in cash (an aggregate purchase 

 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
price of approximately $40.2 million, based on the then-market price of our common stock). Horizon manufactured isolator products in Walnut, CA prior to May 2003 when the site was consolidated with the facilities in Orlando, Florida. 

 

In September 2000, we acquired Geltech, Inc. (“Geltech”), a Delaware corporation originally founded in May 1985. Geltech is a manufacturer of precision molded aspheric optics, which have broad applicability to numerous market segments such as medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors, and environmental monitoring. Precision molded aspheric optics are also used in the active telecom components market to provide a highly efficient means to couple laser diodes to fibers or waveguides. We acquired all of the outstanding shares of Geltech for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $28.5 million, comprised of 822,737 shares of our Class A common stock (valued at $27.5 million based on the then-market price of our common stock) and approximately $1 million in acquisition costs. We manufacture these products at our facility in Orlando, Florida. During fiscal 2002, we expanded it’s manufacturing facility, which included integrating some of the automation techniques utilized at our other facilities (since consolidated to Orlando). During fiscal 2003, in order to reduce costs, we relocated our corporate headquarters to Orlando and reorganized our manufacturing facility there to accommodate all of the production previously performed in Albuquerque, New Mexico for GRADIUM glass lenses and collimators as well as the isolator product line from Walnut, California. 

 

Our Telecommunications Market History 

 

LightChip:  Our first significant dealings in telecommunications began in June 1997, when we announced we had joined with Invention Machine Corporation to form a joint venture company, LightChip, to develop, manufacture and market the next generation of wavelength division multiplexing (“WDM”) systems for use primarily by the telecommunications industry to increase bandwidth by combining multiple light streams from individual transmissions onto a single optical fiber. We formed LightChip in order to serve the growing metropolitan WDM fiberoptics market. From 1998 to 2002, LightChip has received approximately $91 million in venture capital from the issuance of common stock and four series of convertible preferred stock. Between 1998 and 2002 we invested a total of approximately $11 million in LightChip, with our eventual percentage ownership being approximately 13% of total preferred and common shares. LightChip successfully demonstrated a WDM model and had prototypes of several products available in fiscal 2000. LightChip’s first product sales occurred in calendar 2001. We licensed the use of GRADIUM glass to LightChip for specific applications. In May 2002 we wrote down our investment in LightChip by $6.3 million to reflect pricing of an equity round of financing at a price per share that was lower than the carrying value of our investment in LightChip. The telecommunications market had become severely depressed and valuations of start-up companies decreased dramatically. LightChip announced in the fall of 2002 that they would not be able to continue in business, and shortly thereafter, LightChip sold selected assets and contracts. At that time we wrote down our remaining investment to zero. We collected approximately $226,000 of our original investment upon final disposition of the assets of LightChip in fiscal 2003. 

 

Telecommunications Capital Equipment Decline:  During fiscal 2001, the telecom equipment market slowed dramatically, including the optical components segment of the market. As service providers rapidly cut their capital spending budgets, inventories of hardware systems, subsystems, and components grew quickly due to a lag in vendors adjusting their build rates to the downturn in demand. Although current industry inventories are believed to be dropping, there is still a sizeable inventory of components that must be consumed or destroyed before supply and demand come back in balance. This reduction in demand for telecom components was forecasted by management to continue into fiscal 2004. In June 2002, we announced plans for fiscal 2003 to consolidate all production and corporate headquarters in Florida. During fiscal 2003 we consolidated all manufacturing to Orlando, Florida and formed two operating groups: Optical Lens and Laser Components. Optical Lens manages the collimator and aspheric lens products, which continues as the core capability for LightPath. We believe the aspheric lens product line, in particular, has broad applicability to market segments beyond telecom. We have redefined our market segment of “communications” to include: datacom, telecom, hybrid-fiber coax and wireless communications. In addition, we are aggressively pursuing new opportunities in the application areas of medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors, and 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
environmental monitoring. Laser Components is comprised of the isolator product line, and as customers ask for more demanding optical performance, we are striving to provide the entire solution from laser to fiber as well as custom assemblies. With the consolidation of all our product lines in Florida by the end of fiscal 2003 and the reduction in demand for telecom components we will operate one business segment in fiscal 2004. 

 

Operating Segments and Products 

 

In fiscal 2003, we operated through two operating segments: Optical Lens and Laser Components. 

 

The Optical Lens segment includes the core lens business of the Company: Precision Molded Aspheric Optics, GRADIUM lenses and collimators. Applicable markets for the Optical Lens products include defense, medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors, and environmental monitoring. 

 

The Laser Components segment includes the integrated platform segment with a focus on optical packaging solutions. Laser Component also manufactures isolator components, and performs research and development in optical assemblies. In addition, current optical assemblies such as OASIS™ and custom assemblies are included within this segment. 

 

With the consolidation of all our product lines and their manufacturing into our Florida facility during fiscal 2003, we now have one decision-making management team for the Company’s entire product offering and are therefore planning to report financial results for the entire Company without separately identifiable segments in fiscal 2004. 

 

Optical Lens Segment 

 

Precision Molded Optics 

 

Precision Molded Optics are aspheric lenses used in a wide variety of applications including medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors, environmental monitoring, laser-to-fiber coupling, tunable lasers, distributed feedback (DFB) lasers and device coupling. Corning Inc. originally developed the technology that we employ for molding a proprietary low melting temperature glass into an asphere lens. With our September 2000 acquisition of Geltech, we obtained the process, key personnel and equipment, and also secured a perpetual license to all of Corning’s intellectual property associated with the development of precision molded optics. 

 

Our business objective is to provide custom optical solutions to meet customer needs in rapidly changing application markets. We provide aspheric lenses in sizes from sub-millimeter up to 15mm. 

 

We have also developed a line of wafer-scale molded Aspheric lens arrays. This molded lens array process is capable of producing optical components with very-small lens diameters and very-high lens density (for example, 40,000 optical elements in a two-inch diameter array). 

 

GRADIUM 

 

GRADIUM glass was developed by the us in 1985 and is an optical quality glass material with axially varying refractive index, capable of reducing optical aberrations inherent in conventional lenses and performing with a single lens tasks traditionally performed by multi-element, conventional lens systems. GRADIUM glass lenses provide advantages over conventional lenses for applications in focusing and collimating light. By reducing optical aberrations and the number of lenses in an optical system, GRADIUM glass provides more efficient light transmission and greater brightness, lower production costs and a simpler, smaller product. Typical applications include surgical lasers, high power YAG lasers for welding and cutting, defense-market uses, and test and measurement. 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Collimators 

 

The collimator is an element in all fiber-optic systems, including wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) equipment. In addition, collimators are used in a variety of non-telecom markets, which require flexible beam delivery. Collimators straighten and make parallel, diverging light as it exits a fiber. Our standard collimator provides performance in back reflection and insertion loss and can withstand in excess of 10 watts of optical power. The process to manufacture these collimators uses patented laser fusion technologies and robotics. These products may incorporate aspheric molded optics and GRADIUM lenses. 

 

Laser Components Segment 

 

Isolators 

 

We have developed a family of products that utilize a proprietary micro-fixture design and robotic platform process. This automated process allows for micro-optics to be mounted in small transferable fixtures that are processed in arrays and converted into a variety of optical components and component subsystems. This flexible platform is capable of producing a variety of finished products including isolators and wavelength lockers. We are manufacturing a qualified family of free-space, laminate and contract-specific isolators. We also sell isolator assemblies for applications in the metro and access telecom markets. This line is based on a manufacturing platform that can address a wide range of customer specifications, while supporting lower cost applications. 

 

The optical isolator is used to prevent the back reflection of optical signals that can degrade transmitter and amplifier performance. We have developed and qualified an automated platform process that avoids the traditional pitfalls of producing optical isolators. Applicable to a variety of passive optical components, our automated platform process has proven to be an efficient and low-cost method for manufacturing isolators without machining tiny metal fixtures and without utilizing a significant level of manual labor. We believe our isolator has a competitive advantage for a certain segment of OEM business, since our proprietary platform allows us to produce unique designs at competitive prices. 

 

Custom Assemblies 

 

We have introduced a number of custom assemblies that will combine two or more of our components, such as the isolator and molded aspheres, into a subassembly. During fiscal 2002, we began to expand custom assembly offerings and to automate the manufacturing of modules to take advantage of low-cost assembly. We plan to continue to expand our offerings in this area. 

 

Products in Development 

 

In general, the current thrust of our development efforts is for application lens markets which include defense, medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors, and environmental monitoring. 

 

Our original process patent is for producing an optical quality material, GRADIUM glass, with an “axial” gradient refractive index (i.e., the index gradient runs parallel to the optical lens axis, rather than perpendicular to the lens axis or “radial”). The GRADIUM glass designated curve is achieved by the controlled combination of multiple glass optical densities. We have developed a set of proprietary software design tools so that the light upon leaving the glass can be precisely modeled. GRADIUM glass lenses can be produced across a large diameter range (currently 1mm-100mm). Refinement of our manufacturing capabilities has led to improved yield and automation, advancing our goal of producing competitively priced products. 

 

We were issued a patent in fiscal 2000 for the development of a process utilizing high-powered lasers for fusion, splicing and polishing of optical material to include optical fiber. This patent is the basis of our collimator production technology. 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
We were issued our first of three patents relating to our robotic assembly platform used for the manufacturing of isolators in fiscal 2001 and have several other patents in process. 

 

We have approximately 52 U.S. and foreign patents granted or licensed to us in the areas of precision molded optics and “Sol-Gel” technologies. We also hold the right to certain materials we believe are key to the development of high precision molded optics. Although we have a unique and proprietary line of all-glass diffraction gratings (“StableSil”) for telecom applications, there currently is no significant activity in the market for this product line and we have discontinued further development efforts in this area. 

 

In addition, we utilize other optical materials and specialized optical packaging concepts to manipulate light and perform research and development for customer demand optical solutions. 

 

Optical Assemblies 

 

During fiscal 2001, we introduced a number of optical assemblies that combine two or more of our current components, such as the isolator and molded aspheres, into a subassembly. During fiscal 2002 we began to expand these offerings and to automate the manufacturing of modules to take advantage of low cost assembly. Current optical assemblies include the OASIS™ and custom assemblies. Demand for custom assemblies is driven by specific customer needs. Utilizing automation techniques, we are able to provide active alignment of multiple components and deliver a subsystem optimized for the customer’s unique needs with very low insertion loss. 

 

Switches and Collimator Arrays 

 

In fiscal 2003, we addressed customers’ dense wave division mulitiplexing (“DWDM”) needs by allocating certain development resources on a “micro-collimator” assembly to target requests for manufacturing services related to collimating packages. Our micro lens array has application in optical switching, waveguide coupling and fiber array coupling. Generally, inquiries for these products have been coming from producers of next generation switches, micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS) and other optical device makers requesting assistance with packaging and volume production. We have elected to delay expenditure commitments required to launch these products until we see a substantial increase in demand from our customers and the market. 

 

Additionally, during fiscal 2002, we had planned on shipment of the 1XN opto-mechanical switch based upon a patent licensed from Herzel Laor as well as collimator arrays. Although we successfully shipped prototypes of these products by late 2002, we have elected to delay expenditures required to launch these products until we see a substantial increase in demand from our customers and the market. 

 

Sol-Gel Technology 

 

We have developed a replication process to manufacture glass diffractive optical components using Sol-Gel technology. This process allows the fabrication by replication of complex optics at a fraction of the cost of conventional technologies such as photolithography and reactive-ion etching. In addition, we have produced other Sol-Gel based components including the high volume manufacture of silica substrates for optically active windows used in toxic gas detection and the development and production of unique solid-state calibration filters. We have worked with and developed Sol-Gel technology for several years and have successfully addressed many different markets over the years. We have significant knowledge in this field with protection through extensive know-how, trade secrets, and 7 issued patents. 

 

In 2000, we introduced a line of all-glass gratings in response to the anticipated demand from the telecommunications industry for the fabrication of DWDM and other devices requiring high performance and sturdy gratings. These all-glass gratings present significant advantages over available gratings due to outstanding environmental resistance, high performance and low cost. Although we continued to pursue the development of additional products based on Sol-Gel technology and had included in our new product plans inorganic 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
waveguides, active waveguides and arrayed waveguide gratings to be used in telecommunications applications, we have delayed these development efforts due to the current economic environment. We have elected to delay expenditure commitments required to launch these products until we see a substantial increase in demand from our customers and the market. 

 

Business Strategy 

 

During fiscal 2001, the telecom equipment market slowed dramatically, including the optical components segment of the market. As service providers rapidly cut their capital spending budgets, inventories of hardware systems, subsystems, and components grew quickly due to a lag in vendors adjusting their build rates to the downturn in demand. We believed that the reduction in demand for telecom components would continue into fiscal 2004. Consequently we determined we would need to adjust our business plans from a historical focus of serving two separate markets, telecommunications and traditional optics, which were produced from three separate manufacturing sites. Therefore, in fiscal 2003 we reorganized internally and we consolidated all of our manufacturing into our Orlando, Florida facility. 

 

The customer base we are seeking has also changed. We have moved back toward our traditional optics customer base, which represents over 1,000 companies engaged in a wide variety of markets. We felt we had not emphasized applications with these customers during the telecommunications boom and we are working hard to service and participate in the development of their next generation products. We are ready to respond to our “telecom” customers, but we have also redefined this group as a broader market of all “communications” to include: datacom, telecom, hybrid fiber coax and wireless communications. 

 

With the consolidation of all our product lines in Florida completed by the end of fiscal 2003 and the continued reduction in demand for telecom components, we will manage and report no identifiable business segments in fiscal 2004. 

 

Optical Lens 

 

Through our printed catalog and internet on-line information, we offer a standard line of molded aspheres, GRADIUM glass lenses and collimators for broad-based sales to optical designers developing particular systems for OEMs or in-house products. Because complex systems contain many optical components, and our products can be utilized to reduce the number or type of lens elements in such systems, we believe that our products can simplify the design and improve the performance of complex optical systems. However, design and production of an optical product is a lengthy process, and it may take years for producers to redesign complex optical systems using our products, reconfigure the product housing, re-engineer the assembly process and initiate commercial quantity orders for our products. Accordingly, we intend to focus our long-term marketing efforts on emerging industries, such as medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors, and environmental monitoring and performance driven industries that are seeking to optimize performance of new and existing optical products. 

 

Molded Aspheres 

 

Through our acquisition of Geltech in fiscal 2001, we purchased the rights to the Precision Molded Optics process originally developed by Corning, Inc.. Products manufactured using this technology include aspheric lenses, sub-millimeter lenses and lens arrays. These products include wafer-scale molded aspheric lenses, anamorphic lenses and hybrid optical components. 

 

Our optical lens product applications are molded aspheres used in optical data storage, high precision printing, bar coding and by manufacturers of some medical equipment. We are aggressively pursuing new sales opportunities in the application areas of medical devices, machine vision, sensors, and environmental monitoring. We are implementing automation techniques to improve efficiency while reducing our costs in preform grinding and polish procedures. 

 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
We continue to sell aspheric lenses for communications applications. Aspheric lenses and lens arrays are used to perform two major tasks. One is for the collimation of light as it emerges from the fiber. The second major task is coupling light at the output of a laser diode to a fiber or waveguide. 

 

Laser Markets for GRADIUM Lenses 

 

We initially emphasized laser products because we believed GRADIUM lenses could have a substantial immediate commercial impact in laser products with a relatively small initial investment. The majority of lens sales is due to optics used by YAG lasers. Generally, optical designers can substitute our standard GRADIUM glass components for existing laser lens elements. Lasers are presently used extensively in a broad range of consumer and commercial products, including fiber optics, robotics, wafer chip inspection, bar code reading, document reproduction and audio and video compact disc machines. Because GRADIUM glass can concentrate light transmission into a much smaller focal spot than conventional lenses, we believe that GRADIUM glass has the ability to improve the current standards of laser performance in some applications. 

 

Our growth strategy continues to be to increase our emphasis on key laser market niches in the U.S., Europe and Asia to establish the necessary products and partnership alliances to sell into these markets. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 we sold much of our GRADIUM production equipment to an Asian company as part of a licensing agreement whereby they will manufacture GRADIUM glass for LightPath and distribute lenses to their own customers in Asia. This agreement was renegotiated in fiscal 2003, whereby, we will obtain a royalty for their Gradium sales and we will maintain US Gradium production. 

 

During fiscal 1999, LightPath executed a five-year agreement for the distribution of GRADIUM lenses throughout Europe that was sold to Linos AG in June 2000. Our agreement has become inactive under Linos AG, therefore, we are concentrating on sales in Europe through our European sales staff and our established relationships with eight additional European distributors. 

 

Collimators 

 

During 1998, we began the development of products for the then-emerging optoelectronics markets, specifically in the areas of fiber telecommunications. During 1999 and 2000, we expanded this product line, demonstrating to the telecommunication optical components industry that we can provide low cost products and solutions to meet their telecom-related collimator needs. Beginning in 2001, the telecom equipment market slowed dramatically, reducing the demand for the optical components segment of the market. Due to the continued decline of this market segment, we are currently working towards the sale of collimator products into other communication applications, medical, and test and measurement products. 

 

Laser Component 

 

Isolators 

 

With our acquisition of Horizon in fiscal 2000, we acquired automated production of passive optical components for the communications markets. We believe our primary strength is the design of optical subassemblies for automation. Drawing upon our investment in automation, optoelectronic package design and testing, and a multitude of technical disciplines, we have demonstrated the technology and design capabilities to produce isolators for communications customers. By targeting product families and creating common platforms for each, we can tailor variations within a family, as the customer demands, without major process or tooling changes. This philosophy is evident in our proprietary micro-fixture design and automated platform manufacturing process. This platform allows robots to mount micro-optics in small transferable fixtures that can be processed at various levels and converted into a variety of finished products. We believe our isolators have a competitive advantage for the OEM business, since our proprietary platform allows us to produce unique designs at competitive prices in a flexible, automated process. 

 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
In fiscal 2002, we went into production on a new line of isolator assemblies for application in the metro and access telecom markets. This new line is based on a flexible manufacturing platform that can address a wide range of customer specifications while attracting lower cost applications. Sales of this line continued in fiscal 2003 and we continue to serve the communications market while working towards sales into other applications. 

 

Optical Assemblies 

 

We are currently developing additional optical assemblies based on our proprietary technologies. We are working to design, build and sell optical assemblies into the markets for test and measurement, medical devices, military, industrial and communications. 

 

Switches 

 

In 1999, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Herzel Laor for the commercialization of two fiberoptic opto-mechanical switch technologies. In August 2000 we introduced the LP1600 opto-mechanical switch. The LP1600 is a 1xN optical switch, which is designed to route one incoming fiber into one-of-many output fibers. The current design allows customers to select custom configurations of 4 to 24 output channels. The LP1600 had patent applications filed and was sold in small quantities in fiscal 2002. We have elected to delay expenditure commitments required to launch these products until we see a substantial increase in demand from our customers and the market. 

 

Sales and Marketing 

 

Extensive product diversity and varying levels of product maturity characterize the optics industry. Product markets range from consumer (e.g., cameras, copiers) to industrial (e.g., lasers, data storage), from products where the lenses are the central feature (e.g., telescopes, microscopes) to products incorporating lens components (e.g., robotics, semiconductor production equipment). Emerging technology markets require optics for bandwidth expansion and data transfer improvement in the drive to achieve an all-optical network. As a result, the market for our products is highly segmented and no single marketing approach will allow us to access all available market segments. 

 

In fiscal 1998, we narrowed our product focus to the development and marketing of passive components for the telecommunications industry and laser based products in the general optics product arena. With our two acquisitions in fiscal 2000 (Horizon) and fiscal 2001 (Geltech), we added to our line of passive optical components and added a product line sold into the active optical component markets. 

 

Beginning in fiscal 2001, the telecom equipment market slowed dramatically, including the optical components segment of the market. As service providers rapidly cut their capital spending budgets, inventories of hardware systems, subsystems, and components grew quickly due to a lag in vendors adjusting their build rates to the downturn in demand. This reduction in demand for telecom components was projected by management to continue into fiscal 2004, therefore, we felt we had to adjust our business plans. In June 2002 we announced plans to consolidate lens product lines in Florida and reorganize internally. During fiscal 2003 we consolidated all corporate headquarters and manufacturing into Orlando, Florida. 

 

Sales Organization 

 

Our sales staff is trained to promote and sell all of our product lines to our customers. In order to be more accessible to potential customers we have divided our sales staff into the following territories: 

 

U.S. East Coast & Eastern Canada
   Asia 
U.S. West Coast & Western Canada
   Europe 
U.S. South Central
     
U.S. North Central
     

 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
In addition, we have formalized relationships with eight industrial, optoelectronics and medical component distributors located in foreign countries to assist in distribution of our products outside the United States. Because the optics industry is highly fragmented, we utilize distributors and a catalog as well as our internet site (www.lightpath.com) as vehicles for broader promotion of our products. We make use of print media advertisements in various trade magazines and will participate in appropriate domestic and foreign trade shows. 

 

Trade Shows 

 

We have displayed our product line additions and enhancements at various trade shows each year. We participated in the Laser 2003 Show in Germany and National Fiber Optic Engineers Conference in September 2003. During fiscal 2002, the Company announced five new products designed for use in both long-haul and metropolitan area (metro) networks which we displayed at the March 2002 Optical Fiber Communication Conference (“OFC”) held in Anaheim, California. Those five new products were examples of how we believe LightPath can provide added value to our customers. They also underscore LightPath’s strategic directive of broadening our base of innovative optical components and assemblies by combining application-specific engineering with automated manufacturing. These shows provide an opportunity for us to meet with potential customers, distribute information and samples of our products and to discuss test results from samples previously sent. 

 

Optical Lens 

 

Our current marketing plan for molded aspheres targets several high volume non-communications opportunities in defense, industrial, medical devices, other laser applications as well as test and measurement. In addition, asphere lenses are targeted towards transmitter and tunable lasers in the communications market including metro, long-haul and hybrid coax fiber applications. 

 

Our sales efforts in targeting laser applications, an area where GRADIUM lenses increase the quality of YAG laser beams and reduce the focal spot size, has received market acceptance as well as sales of lenses for laser and wafer chip inspection markets. Nevertheless, sales trends have been down in GRADIUM lenses, as well as most optical products, for two years. 

 

During fiscal 2003, our collimator products were targeted towards industrial, medical, test and measurement applications as well as communications. Our fiber fusion technology utilized in our collimator products is finding good acceptance due to its ability to handle high power and increased efficiency. In fiscal 2001 and 2002, the target market for our collimator products was concentrated within the telecommunications field. 

 

Optical lens sales for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 were approximately $5.1 million, $8.1 million, and $8.9 million, respectively. 

 

Laser Components 

 

Our marketing plan for isolators targets customers in the communication markets that require 1310 to 1550 wavelength, which we believe have high volume potential for the next decade. 

 

As our customers ask for more demanding optical performance we see an opportunity to provide the entire solution from laser to fiber as well as custom assemblies. We can provide optical assemblies where several of our components are integrated with automation to provide a subassembly to the customer. We have introduced a number of optical assemblies that combine two or more of our current components, such as molded aspheres and an isolator, into a subassembly. During fiscal 2002 we began to expand optical assemblies offerings and to automate the manufacturing of optical assemblies to lower our cost of assembly. In fiscal 2003 sales of our current optical assemblies include the OASIS™ and custom assemblies. We believe these optical assemblies have the potential to provide higher gross profit margins than the individual components. 

 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Laser component sales for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 were approximately $1.6 million, $3.9 million, and $16.4 million, respectively. Our isolator sales have historically been made to a small number of customers. In the fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, a single customer (different customers in each year) has accounted for approximately 44%, 62% and 70%, respectively, of isolator sales. 

 

Competition 

 

Optical Lens 

 

Molded Aspheres and GRADIUM glass 

 

The market for optical components is highly competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with manufacturers of conventional spherical lens products and optical components, providers of aspheric lenses and optical components and producers of optical quality glass. To a lesser extent, we compete with developers of radial gradient lenses and optical components. Many of these competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. 

 

Manufacturers of conventional lenses and optical components include corporations such as Eastman Kodak Corporation, Nikon, Olympus Optical Company, Carl Zeiss and Leica AG. In addition to being substantial producers of optical components, these entities are also some of the primary customers for such components, incorporating them into finished products for sale to end-users. Consequently, these competitors have significant control over certain markets for our products. In addition, although these companies do not manufacture axial gradient lenses, and although we believe that we have substantial technological expertise in this field, these companies could rapidly pursue development of axial gradient products, in light of their substantial resources. In addition, our products compete with other products currently produced by these manufacturers. 

 

Manufacturers of aspheric lenses provide significant competition for our optical lens in providing products that improve the shortcomings of conventional lenses. Aspheric lens system manufacturers include Eastman Kodak Corporation and Hoya Corporation. The use of aspheric surfaces provides the optical designer with a powerful tool in correcting spherical aberrations and enhancing performance in state-of-the-art optical products. Plastic molded aspheres, on the other hand, allow for high volume production, but primarily are limited to low-tech consumer products that do not place a high demand on performance (such as plastic lenses in disposable cameras). Molded plastic aspheres appear in products that stress weight, size and cost as their measure of success. 

 

To a limited extent, we compete with manufacturers of other gradient index lens materials. Currently, processes to produce gradient index materials include ion-exchange, chemical vapor deposition and Sol-Gel, all of which produce small radial gradient index rods with limited applications. Manufacturers using these processes include Nippon Sheet Glass, Olympus Optical Company, and Gradient Lens Corporation. We believe that these processes are limited by the small refractive index change achievable (typically, < 0.05), the small skin depth of the gradient region (typically < 3 mm), the lack of control of the shape of the resultant gradient profile, limited glass compositions, and high per unit manufacturing costs. 

 

Collimators 

 

There are currently only a handful of direct competitors for our collimating lenses and collimators. Nippon Sheet Glass currently supplies the majority of collimator lenses. The collimator lens is a separate business from Nippon Sheet Glass’s primary product, automotive glass. Our collimator competes against existing collimator assemblies, which are produced by Casix (acquired by JDS Uniphase), DiCon Fiberoptics, Samsung Electronics, Wave Optics and Oz Optics. There are also a number of companies that assemble their own collimators, such as JDS Uniphase. Some of these competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than LightPath. 

 

11 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Laser Components 

 

Isolators 

 

We compete with a few specific players in the isolator segment of the components market. These include Namiki, TDK, Tokin, Kyocera, Sumitomo and Kaifa Technology (acquired by JDS Uniphase). Our strategy does not involve direct competition with the “catalog” offerings of these companies; rather, we focus our efforts on designing and manufacturing specialty and hybrid components according to particular OEM specifications by delivering flexible and novel packaging solutions achieved by our automated platform. 

 

Manufacturing 

 

Molded Aspheres and GRADIUM 

 

As of June 2003, our manufacturing lines for molded aspheres, GRADIUM glass lenses, collimators and isolators are housed in a 41,000 square foot production facility in Orlando, Florida. We believe this space is adequate to accommodate foreseeable needs of the Company. The facility features areas for each step of the manufacturing process including clean room operations, tooling and coating work areas, and integrated assembly. The production facility also emphasizes automation in all phases of manufacturing. The facility provides us with capability to significantly reduce costs through process improvements and automation, and provide the capacity needed for the fulfillment of high volume opportunities. The facility includes research and development labs that include development and metrology equipment. 

 

The molded asphere manufacturing area includes lens pressing equipment, high precision mold production equipment, advanced metrology and inspection equipment and coating facilities. The plant also features an extensive tooling and machine shop, developed for the fabrication of proprietary press workstations, and advanced mold development. 

 

In April 1996, we built out our lens manufacturing plant in Albuquerque, New Mexico for GRADIUM, which was capable of producing in excess of 2 million lens blanks per year depending on product size and mix. However, late in fiscal 2002 we sold our larger, more sophisticated furnaces, milling machines and metrology equipment to an Asian company as part of a licensing agreement whereby they will manufacture GRADIUM glass for LightPath and distribute to their own customers in Asia. This agreement was renegotiated in fiscal 2003, whereby, we will obtain a royalty for their sales into Asia and we have a second source for boule production. The remaining GRADIUM equipment was relocated or sold by September 2003 so that our Orlando facility now has the capability of supplying our current GRADIUM needs and the Asian company will provide additional boules as needed in the future. 

 

We are ISO 9001 certified. Much of our product qualification is performed in-house. Our test and evaluation capabilities include Damp Heat, High/Low Temp Storage, and a Thermal Shock Oven, which are representative of the equipment required to meet Telcordia requirements. Our engineering departments have full design and CAD technical support. The implementation of Statistical Process Controls has allowed us to eliminate costly manual testing operations. We believe the ability to maintain consistently high quality at the manufacturing stage represents a significant and distinctive characteristic of our production capabilities. Quality control is critical to our ability to bring our products to market as the customers may demand rigorous testing prior to purchasing a product. 

 

Collimators 

 

We had commercial manufacturing operations for collimators at our Albuquerque, NM facilities, including a 5,000 square foot clean room that housed our collimator manufacturing stations. Each station included laser fusion and housing equipment and an automated testing process, as well as laser polishing stations. In June 2002, 

 

12 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
the Company announced plans and subsequently relocated the collimator manufacturing operations from Albuquerque to Orlando, Florida by September 2002. We wrote down underutilized assets at June 30, 2002 and then either sold or moved our manufacturing and product qualification equipment to Florida. 

 

Subcontractors and Strategic Alliances 

 

We believe that low cost manufacturing will be crucial to our long-term success. We presently use subcontractors for finishing lenses, including the collimator lens, and intend to continue to do so. We have qualified and licensed numerous finishers to fabricate lenses, several of which are located in Asia. 

 

We entered into a 1997 strategic alliance with an Asian company as a possible second source for GRADIUM glass production, as a possible source for high-volume blank production, to increase the presence of GRADIUM glass in certain established Asian markets and to develop a continuous flow manufacturing process, currently used by the Asian company for high-end optical lenses. In February 2000, the Asian company announced that they intended to spend $5 million to purchase equipment necessary to build out a second facility for GRADIUM glass materials and other products. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 these old agreements were renegotiated and a new licensing arrangement was executed, whereby the Asian company will manufacture GRADIUM glass for LightPath as well as their own customers. This agreement was renegotiated in fiscal 2003, whereby we will obtain a royalty for their sales to customers in Asia and we have a second source for boule production. 

 

We have taken steps to protect our proprietary methods of repeatable high quality manufacturing by patent disclosures and internal trade secret controls. 

 

Suppliers 

 

We utilize a number of glass compositions for the manufacture of our molded glass aspheres and lens array products. One such glass is a glass composition licensed from and manufactured by Corning Inc. Corning Inc. is currently the sole source for this glass composition. We believe that a satisfactory supply of production materials will continue to be available at competitive prices, although there can be no assurance in this regard. Suppliers and second sources of other glass compositions are readily available. 

 

Base optical materials, used in both GRADIUM and collimator products, are manufactured and supplied by a number of major optical and glass manufacturers. Optical fiber and collimator housings are manufactured and supplied by a number of major manufacturers. We believe that a satisfactory supply of production materials will continue to be available at reasonable prices, although there can be no assurance in this regard. 

 

We also rely on local and regional vendors for component materials and services such as chemicals and inert gases, specialty ceramics, UV coatings and other specialty coatings. To date, we have found a suitable number of qualified vendors for these materials and services. 

 

Laser Components 

 

Isolators 

 

Our isolator manufacturing lines were housed in approximately 5,000 square-feet of clean room space within the Walnut, California facility. We relocated the isolator manufacturing operations from Walnut to Orlando during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. We wrote down underutilized assets during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and we have moved our manufacturing and product qualification equipment to Orlando. The relocated manufacturing equipment includes dual beam laser welding stations, sub-micron alignment engines, robotic assembly stations, automated dispensing systems and precision dicing equipment. The primary benefits 

 

13 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
of our approach to manufacturing are (i) reduced costs as a result of higher yields and throughput, and (ii) product consistency as a result of eliminating manual labor. We believe we are the only manufacturer of free-space isolators currently using automated manufacturing. 

 

Suppliers 

 

We currently purchase a few key materials from single or limited sources. The polarizing glass used in our isolator products is supplied primarily by Corning and is marketed as Polarcor™. To date, we have been able to acquire an ample supply of polarizing glass. Garnet and other crystals used in our isolator products are provided by a number of vendors, including Casix, Sumitomo and TDK. Available quantities and adequate pricing of garnet is available in the open market. We believe that a satisfactory supply of production materials will continue to be available at competitive prices, although there can be no assurance in this regard. 

 

We rely on local and regional vendors for component materials such as housings, fixtures and magnets. In addition, certain products require external processing such as brazing and metalization. To date, we have found a suitable number of qualified vendors. 

 

Patents and Other Proprietary Intellectual Property 

 

Our policy is to protect our technology by, among other things, patents, trade secret protection, trademarks and copyrights. As of June 2003, LightPath and its subsidiaries have been issued or have licenses to fifty-two U.S. patents, thirty-three foreign patents and have filed numerous applications for additional U.S. and foreign patents. Patents have been issued, and/or patent applications have been filed, in the areas of glass composition, glass molding, gradient geometries, production processes, Sol-Gel processing, product design, fiber attachment, robotic assembly and micro-fabrication. The first of our issued patents expires in 2006; the remainder expires at various times through 2019. Patent applications corresponding to our U.S. applications have been filed in the patent offices in Europe and Japan pursuant to the Patent Cooperation Treaty. Under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, a patent applicant may file one patent application and have it acknowledged as an accepted filing in as many member nations to the Patent Cooperation Treaty as the applicant elects. 

 

In addition to patent protection, certain process inventions, lens designs and innovations are retained as trade secrets. A key feature of GRADIUM glass is that, once fabricated, it does not reveal our formula upon inspection and, to our knowledge, cannot be reverse-engineered. 

 

LightPath® is registered as a service mark in the United States and GRADIUM® and Polycoat® are also registered trademarks. 

 

Issued patents owned or available to us may not afford adequate protection to us or may be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented. Patent applications relating to our products may not result in patents being issued. Patent rights granted to us for technologies that we may license in the future may not provide competitive advantages to us. Patents that are owned or licensed by us that are issued in one jurisdiction may not be issued in any other jurisdiction. The validity of any of our patents may not be upheld if challenged by others in litigation or if such litigation alleges that our activities infringe upon patents owned by others. 

 

Others may have independently developed or will independently develop and patent similar or superior products and technologies, duplicate any of our products or technologies or design around our patents. There may be patents issued to others that will adversely affect the development or commercialization of our products or technologies. We do not have an insurance policy for patent infringement liability coverage for costs or damages relating to claims of infringement. We could incur substantial costs in defending suits brought against us, or any of our licensees, or in suits in which we may assert that our patent or patents provide us with rights against others or in suits contesting the validity of a patent. Any such proceedings could be protracted. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in defending our patent rights in any future infringement action. If the outcome of any such litigation is adverse to our interests, our business may be materially adversely affected. 

 

14 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
We do not believe that any of our products or processes infringe any U.S. or foreign patent rights of any other party; our products or processes may infringe or be found to infringe on another party’s United States or foreign patent, or patent application. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourself in infringement litigation brought by others, or in prosecuting infringement claims against third parties. An adverse party claiming patent or copyright infringement might assert claims for substantial damages or seek to obtain an injunction or other equitable relief, which could effectively block the ability for us to make, use, distribute and sell products. 

 

We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and customers. However, our confidentiality agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Some of the confidentiality agreements that we rely upon will expire in the next few years. Others may independently develop technology or processes substantially equivalent to or better than our technology or processes and our trade secrets may otherwise become disclosed to or independently discovered by our competitors. 

 

Environmental and Governmental Regulation 

 

Currently, emissions and waste from our present manufacturing processes are at such low levels that no special environmental permits or licenses are required. In the future, we may need to obtain special permits for disposal of increased waste by-products. The glass materials we utilize contain lead and other toxic elements in a stabilized molecular form. However, the high temperature diffusion process results in low-level emissions of such elements in gaseous form. If production reaches a certain level, we believe that we will be able to efficiently recycle certain of our raw material waste, thereby reducing disposal levels. We believe that we are presently in compliance with all material federal, state and local laws and regulations governing our operations and have obtained all material licenses and permits necessary for the operation of our business. 

 

We utilize certain chemicals, solvents and adhesives in our manufacturing process. We believe we maintain all necessary permits and believe we are in full compliance with all applicable regulations. 

 

To our knowledge there are currently no federal, state or local regulations that restrict the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Certain end-user applications will require that the complete optical systems receive government approval, such as U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for use in endoscopy. In these cases, we will generally be involved on a secondary level and the OEM customer will be responsible for the license and approval process. 

 

Research and Development 

 

From August 1985 through June 1996, we were engaged in basic research and development that resulted in the discovery of GRADIUM glass and the proprietary processes for fabricating GRADIUM glass lenses. This research included theoretical development of the mathematical formulas for accurately defining GRADIUM glass, development and refinement of the replicable fabrication process, and development of the software modeling tools and metrology. We shipped our first GRADIUM glass products in May 1994. Our initial flint product line was lead-based. The flint GRADIUM glass family has been expanded over the years, to include crown glasses, titania-silicate glasses and polymer materials. We intend to continue fundamental materials research, process and production optimization and the development of new glass compositions to create different “families” and geometries of GRADIUM glass materials to be offered to customers. “Families” of glass are various base glass compounds comprised of different elements. Variation of refractive index can be accomplished by using different elements in glass. 

 

The majority of present development efforts are focused on the applicable markets that include YAG lasers, defense, medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors, and environmental monitoring. We incurred expenditures for research and development during the fiscal years, 2003, 2002 and 2001 

 

15 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
of $2,801,709, $7,109,415, and $7,115,025, respectively. In addition, during fiscal 2001, $9.1 million of in-process research and developments costs were expensed related to the acquisition of Geltech. We currently plan to expend approximately $1.2 million for research and development during fiscal 2004, which could vary depending upon the progress of projects currently in the proof of concept stage. 

 

Employees 

 

At August 31, 2003, we have 72 full-time employees, primarily in Florida. Any employee additions or terminations over the next twelve months, primarily consisting of manufacturing personnel, will be dependent upon the actual sales levels realized during fiscal 2004. Nine of our present employees are engaged in management, administrative and clerical functions, 8 in research and product development, 8 in sales and marketing and 47 are in production. Additionally we have 9 persons on part-time or contractor status. We intend to continue our current practice of utilizing part-time help, term contractors and outside consultants, where appropriate, in addition to hiring full-time personnel. None of our employees are represented by labor unions. 

 

Executive Officers 

 

As of September 2003, the following individuals are serving as executive officers: 

 

Kenneth Brizel has served as a Director of LightPath, CEO and President since July 2002. Mr. Brizel has spent 21 years in the communications and microelectronics industries. From October 2000 until July 2002 he was Senior Vice President Strategy and Business Development for Oplink Communications. From April 1997 to September 2000, Mr. Brizel was Director of Strategic Marketing for Optoeletronics and Network Communications Integrated Circutis groups within Lucent Microelectronics. Mr. Brizel’s diverse experiences include assignments at RCA/GE, Lucent/Agere, Mostek and Star Semiconductor before joining Oplink. His responsibilities spanned sales, engineering, marketing strategy and business development. Mr. Brizel received his Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Electrical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, NY. 

 

Monty Allen has been Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer since August 2003. Mr. Allen has served as a CFO for both public and private companies. From August 2001 to July 2003, he has been engaged as an independent consultant to entities in venture creation, computer hardware and public education. Mr. Allen served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer of GlobeNet Capital Corporation from August 1999 to August 2001. GlobeNet was a privately-held developer of trading system software for financial markets. From August 1995 to August 1999, he was the Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary of Autonomous Technologies Corporation, a publicly held developer of laser refractive surgical equipment. Mr. Allen has earlier CFO and sales management experience with both publicly and privately-held medical products and biotech firms. Early in his career, he was in the practice of public accounting for five years with KPMG and Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Allen is a certified public accountant and earned an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and a Bachelor of Science in Accounting from Florida State University. 

 

Bruce Bernacki has been Chief Technology Officer since August 2003. Dr. Bernacki previously held the position of Vice President of Research and Development from September 2002 to August 2003. He joined our Geltech research and development group in July 2000. Prior to LightPath, Dr. Bernacki was in product development management positions with Siros Technologies from November 1999 to July 2000 and Iomega from September 1997 to November 1999. He has worked in the optics industry for 18 years holding positions in optical data storage for both magneto-optical and phase change media. His early career experience includes development positions with Oak Ridge National Laboratory and the U.S. Air Force. Dr. Bernacki is the inventor or co-inventor of five U.S. Patents and holds a Ph.D. and Master of Science in Optical Sciences, as well as a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, all from the University of Arizona. 

 

16 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Risk Factors 

 

The following risk factors should be read by you together with the more detailed information included at other sections of this Form 10-K. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. An investment in our Common Stock is extremely risky. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information in this Form 10-K before investing in our Common Stock. Our business and the results of operations could be seriously harmed by any of the following risks. The trading price of our Common Stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. 

 

There are forward-looking statements in these risk factors and elsewhere in this report. We use words such as “believe”, “expect,” “anticipate,” “plan” or similar words to identify forward-looking statements and any statement relating to plans, intentions, expectations or other forward-looking expression is a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are made based upon our belief as of the date that such statements are made and are based largely on our current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak as of the date of this report. While we may make other forward-looking statements either orally or in writing in the future, we do not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The following risk factors are intended to be cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. 

 

Our fiscal year ends on June 30 and references to years in this Form 10K refer to our fiscal year ended as of June 30 of the referenced calendar year. 

 

A.    Risks Related To Our Business and Financial Results 

 

We Have A History Of Losses And If We Continue To Incur Losses Our Business May Fail.    We have incurred net losses of $21.2 million, $50.7 million and $60.9 million for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $177 million as of June 30, 2003. During fiscal 2003, we experienced reduced revenues due to the widespread softening of the U.S. economy and the telecommunications industry in particular. We experienced order cancellations primarily in fiscal 2002 and extensions of product shipment dates by our customers who adjusted their inventory levels in response to industry contraction. These cancellations and extensions adversely impacted our revenues and could result in higher inventory levels than required to support our sales levels. These conditions may significantly delay, and could prevent, our ability to achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur significant sales and marketing, administrative and product development expenses, and, as a result, we will need to generate increased revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we achieve profitability, given the competition in our optical markets, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. As a result, we will need to generate significantly higher revenues while containing costs and operating expenses if we are to achieve profitability. 

 

In fiscal 2003, progress was made by us to reduce operating cash outflow. The Company’s cash used from operations was approximately $0.9 million (of the $9.7 million used in the year) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Our fiscal 2004 operating plan and financial projections project sales growth, improving margins and lower administrative expenditures, offset in part by increased selling expenses. The projections show the potential for achieving cash flow breakeven during the course of the 2004 fiscal year. However, the operating plans and financial projections may not be fully achieved. If the projections are not met, we will have to either raise debt or equity capital or further reduce operating costs to maintain a sufficient cash balance to operate throughout fiscal 2004. Factors which could increase cash used in future quarters include, but are not limited to, a decline in revenue, additional collectibility issues with regard to accounts receivable, increased material costs, increased labor costs, lump sum payments and/or increases in our annual directors’ and officers’ insurance premiums, further unanticipated costs associated with the consolidation of facilities, increased health insurance and benefits costs and increases in discretionary spending. Should we find it necessary to raise additional funds, we may find that such funds are either not available or are available only on terms that are unattractive in terms of cost or 

 

17 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
dilution of existing shareholders’ interests, or both. In the event that we find it necessary to raise additional funds to sustain operations and we are unable to do so, we may need to take such actions as additional restructuring of operations to reduce costs, or to discontinue operations altogether. Should that occur, the realizability of our assets, especially inventory, property and equipment, intellectual property and other intangible assets may be such that significant adjustments to our consolidated financial statements would be required. 

 

We May Need External Financing In Order To Fund Our Operations And Plans For Sales Growth.    While we continue to take actions to reduce cash used in operations, there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash to fund our future operations and growth strategies. We may need to obtain external financing in the future. We do not have any commitments from others to provide additional financing in the future and there can be no assurance that any such additional financing will be available if needed; or, if available, will be on terms favorable to us. In the event such needed financing is not obtained, our operations will be materially adversely affected and we could be forced to cease or substantially reduce operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to shareholders, and debt financings, if available, may involve substantial restrictive covenants or require the pledging of substantial of our assets. 

 

Because Of Our Dependence On A Few Key Customers, The Loss of Any Key Customer Could Cause A Significant Decline in Our Revenues.    In fiscal 2003, Intel Corp. accounted for 10% of our net revenue. In fiscal 2002, Finisar Corp. accounted for 24% of our net revenue. In fiscal 2001, Agere Systems, Inc., accounted for 44% of our net revenue. We anticipate that our operating results will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of significant customers. The loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in sales to any such customers, would adversely affect our revenues. 

 

If We Continue to Have Order Cancellations And Extensions Of Product Shipment Dates By Some Of Our Customers, our Ability to Achieve Profitability Will Be Hindered.    Our sales are generally made pursuant to purchase orders that are subject to cancellation, modification or rescheduling without significant penalties to our customers. In recent years, we have experienced order cancellations and extensions of product shipment dates by some of our customers. If these or other current customers stop placing orders, or further reduce orders, we may not be able to replace these orders with orders from new customers and our ability to achieve profitability will be adversely affected. The majority of our current customers do not have any minimum purchase obligations, and they may stop placing orders with us at any time, regardless of any forecast they may have previously provided. 

 

Our Consolidation Efforts May Negatively Impact Our Business.    In June 2002 we announced plans to consolidate our collimator and other lens production into our Orlando, Florida facility and close our Albuquerque, New Mexico facilities. This plan was completed by June 2003. Additionally, we consolidated our isolator manufacturing from Walnut, California to Orlando, also completed by June 2003. The widespread softening of the U.S. economy and the telecommunications industry in particular has required us to lower our manufacturing and administrative costs and try to eliminate underutilized capacity. There can be no assurances that we will be able to retain certain key employees due to relocation and/or consolidation. We have limited experience with consolidating businesses within our organization. Our efforts may not be successful and may result in unanticipated operational problems, expenses and liabilities, and our business may suffer as a result of diversion of management attention due to the consolidation. If we are unable to consolidate these product lines within our organization in a timely and effective manner, our business and our operating results will be adversely affected. 

 

Our New Market Penetration Efforts Are At An Early Stage Of Development And May Not Prove Successful.    Our efforts to diversify our sales to additional optical applications in multiple industries are still in the introductory phase and our current line of products have not generated sufficient revenues to sustain our operations. While we believe our existing products are commercially viable, we anticipate the need to educate the optical components markets in order to generate market demand and market feedback may require us to further refine these products. Development of additional product lines will require significant further research, development, testing and marketing prior to commercialization. There can be no assurance that any proposed products will be successfully developed, demonstrate desirable optical performance, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs or be successfully marketed. 

 

18 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Some of Our Products Have Not Been Demonstrated To Be Commercially Successful.    Although our optical lens products have been accepted commercially, the benefits of the GRADIUM glass line are not widely known. In order to persuade potential customers to purchase GRADIUM products, we will need to overcome industry resistance to, and suspicion of, gradient lens technology that has resulted from previous failed attempts by various researchers and manufacturers unrelated to us to develop a repeatable, consistent process for producing lenses with variable refractive indices. Prospective customers will need to make substantial expenditures in order to redesign products to incorporate our GRADIUM lenses. There can be no assurances that potential customers will view the benefits of our products as sufficient to warrant such design expenditures. 

 

Our collimator products have not yet achieved broad commercial acceptance; our isolator sales first entered the commercial production phase in April 2000 with one significant customer; and some of our molded aspheres applications are new. Although we are engaged in negotiations and discussions with potential customers, there can be no assurance that any such discussions will lead to development of commercially viable products or significant revenues, if any, or that any products currently existing or to be developed in the future will attain sufficient market acceptance to generate significant revenues. We must also satisfy industry-standard Telcordia testing on telecommunication products to meet customer requirements, as well as satisfy prospective customers that we will be able to meet their demand for quantities of products, since we may be the sole supplier and licensor. We do not have lengthy experience as a manufacturer for all our product lines and have limited financial resources. We may be unable to accomplish any one or more of the foregoing to the extent necessary to develop commercially successful market acceptance of our products. 

 

Our Relatively Short Operating History May Hinder Our Ability to Accurately Forecast Revenues and Expenses.    We have only generated revenues from the sale of products to the communications industry since fiscal 1999. Through fiscal 1996, our primary activities were basic research and development of glass material properties. Moreover, our ability to accurately forecast revenues is impacted by weaknesses and uncertainties regarding overall demand within the communications industry, inventory levels within the industry, sudden order reductions and cancellations by customers, lower backlog of customer orders, and potential pricing pressures that may arise from supply/demand conditions within the industry. Because we have only recently begun to sell these products, we have in the past and may in the future be unable to accurately forecast our revenues from sales of these products, and we have limited meaningful historical financial data upon which to plan future operating expenses. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, and we may not be able to quickly reduce spending if our revenue is lower than we project. Major new product introductions will also result in increased operating expenses in advance of generating revenues, if any. Therefore, net losses in a given quarter could be greater than expected. We may not be able to address the risks associated with our limited operating history in the communications market and our business strategy may not be sustainable. Failure to accurately forecast our revenues and future operating expenses could cause quarterly fluctuations in our net revenues and may result in volatility or a decline in our stock price. 

 

If We Are Unable To Develop And Successfully Introduce New And Enhanced Products That Meet The Needs Of Our Customers, Our Business May Fail.    Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate our customers’ needs and develop products that address those needs. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require that we effectively transfer production processes from research and development to manufacturing and coordinate our efforts with the efforts of our suppliers to rapidly achieve efficient volume production. If we fail to effectively transfer production processes, develop product enhancements or introduce new products that meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our net revenues may decline. 

 

Our Sales, Gross Margins, And Market Share May Be Reduced Because of Increased Competition. Competition in optical markets in which we compete is intense. Many of our competitors are large public companies that have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, these competitors are able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, the market capitalization and cash reserves of several of our competitors are much larger than ours, and, as a result, these competitors are much better 

 

19 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines. Such acquisitions could give our competitors further advantages. For example, if our competitors acquire any of our significant customers, these customers may reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Alternatively, some of our competitors may spin-out new companies in the optical component and module market. These companies may compete more aggressively than their former parent companies due to their greater dependence on our markets. In addition, many of our potential competitors have significantly more established sales and customer support organizations, much greater name recognition, more extensive customer bases, more developed distribution channels and broader product offerings than we have. These companies can leverage their customer bases and broader product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. We expect to encounter potential customers that, due to existing relationships with our competitors, are committed to the products offered by these competitors. As a result of the foregoing factors, we expect that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share. 

 

We compete with manufacturers of conventional spherical lens products and aspherical lens products, producers of optical quality glass and other developers of gradient lens technology as well as telecom product manufacturers. In both the optical lens and communications markets, we are competing against, among others, established international companies, especially in Asia. Many of these companies also are primary customers for optical and communication components, and therefore have significant control over certain markets for our products. We are also aware of other companies that are attempting to develop radial gradient lens technology. There may also be others of which we are not aware that are attempting to develop axial gradient lens technology similar to our technology. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop technologies that are superior to or more commercially acceptable than our existing and planned technologies and products. 

 

Because of Our Limited Product Offerings, Some Of Which Are Currently Experiencing A Decline In Demand, Our Ability to Generate Additional Revenues May Be Adversely Affected.    We derive a substantial portion of our net revenues from a limited number of products. Specifically, in fiscal 2003, we derived approximately 75% of our net revenues from molded aspheric lenses, GRADIUM optics and collimators and 25% from and isolators and custom assemblies. We expect that net revenues from a limited number of products will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenues. Demand for these and other optical market products has declined as a result of the recent slowdown in the U.S. economy and we continue to experience order cancellations and delays in product shipment dates by our customers. Aside from the current slowdown in the telecommunications industry, continued and expanding market acceptance of our products is critical to our future success. We cannot assure you that, once the communication industry conditions improve, our current products will achieve market acceptance at the rate at which we expect, or at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 

 

If We Don’t Expand Our Sales Organization Our Revenues May Not Increase.    The sale of our products requires long and involved efforts targeted at several key departments within our prospective customers’ organizations. Sales of our products require the prolonged efforts of executive personnel and specialized systems and applications engineers working together with a small number of dedicated salespersons. Currently, our sales organization is limited. We will need to grow our sales force in order to increase market awareness and sales of our products. Competition for qualified individuals remains, despite the industry downturn, and we might not be able to hire the kind and number of sales personnel and applications engineers we need. If we are unable to expand our sales operations, we may not be able to increase market awareness or sales of our products, which would prevent us from increasing our revenues. 

 

If We Are Unable to Make Sales In A Fragmented Market Our Revenues May Not Increase.    The markets for optical lenses and laser components are highly fragmented. Consequently, we will need to identify and successfully target particular market segments in which we believe we will have the most success. These efforts will require a substantial, but unknown, amount of effort and resources. The fragmented nature of the optical products market may impede our ability to achieve commercial acceptance for our products. In addition, our 

 

20 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
success will depend in great part on our ability to develop and implement a successful marketing and sales program. There can be no assurance that any marketing and sales efforts undertaken by us will be successful or will result in any significant product sales. 

 

Our Products Have Long And Variable Sales Cycles Which Reduce Our Ability to Accurately Forecast Revenues.    The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict because of the length and variability of the sales and implementation cycles for our products. We do not recognize revenue until a product has been shipped to a customer, all significant vendor obligations have been performed and collection is considered probable. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products and our manufacturing process. This customer evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy initial sales cycle (often one year or longer). While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. Because of the evolving nature of the optical markets, we cannot predict the length of these sales and development cycles. The recent slowdown in the U.S. economy has resulted in order cancellations and extensions of product shipment dates by our customers. These long sales cycles, coupled with the uncertain effects of the slowdown and expected recovery in the U.S. economy, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which could continue to cause volatility in our stock price. 

 

Current And Pending Litigation May Adversely Impact Operating Results.    On May 2, 2000, the Company commenced a class action lawsuit in the Chancery Court of Delaware, New Castle County (the “Delaware Action”). In that action, the Company sought a declaratory judgment with respect to (i) the Company’s right to redeem its Class E Common Stock on March 31, 2001 for $.0001 per share, (ii) the right of the holders of Class E Common Stock to vote at the Annual Meeting to be held on October 6, 2000, and (iii) for certification of the holders of Class E Common Stock as a class and the named defendants as its representatives. The Delaware Action was settled in fiscal 2002 with the final settlement agreement requiring the Company to pay $0.40 per share to each Class E holder. The settlement agreement permitted Class E shareholders to elect not to participate in the settlement and thus was not binding on any Class E shareholders who so elected. Approximately 12% of the former Class E shareholders elected not to participate in the settlement (see Texas Action described below). During fiscal 2003, the Company distributed approximately $1.3 million of the $1.5 million estimated total cost arising under the settlement agreement. 

 

On or about June 9, 2000, a small group of holders of Class E Common Stock commenced an action in a state court in Texas (the “Texas Action”). Plaintiffs in the Texas Action made various allegations regarding the circumstances surrounding the issuance of the Class E Common Stock and sought damages based upon those allegations. Management believes the allegations underlying the Texas Action are without merit. During the first quarter of fiscal 2003, the Texas court granted the Company’s motion for Summary Judgment. The plaintiffs sought reconsideration of the ruling, however, on October 24, 2002, the Texas court denied their motion. The Company is in the process of seeking to have the two remaining named individuals (former directors and officers) dismissed from the action, however, we are unable to predict the final outcome of this litigation at this time. 

 

The Company is also involved in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business. After taking into consideration legal counsel’s evaluation of such actions, management is of the opinion that their outcome will not have a significant effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

 

The Company may from time to time become involved in other lawsuits and legal proceedings. Litigation is expensive and is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in any such matters could adversely impact our operating results or financial condition. Additionally, any litigation to which we are subject could also require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. 

 

 

21 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Sales, Political, Currency And Other Risks Associated With Our International Sales Could Negatively Impact Our Business.    For fiscal 2003, approximately 20% of our net revenues were from sales to international customers. Our international sales will be limited if we cannot establish and/or maintain relationships with international distributors, establish foreign operations, expand international sales, and develop relationships with international service providers. Additionally, our international sales may be adversely affected if international economies weaken. We are subject to risks including the following: 

 

  •   greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods;  

 

  •   the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States;  

 

  •   unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;  

 

  •   unexpected changes in foreign demand in response to exchange rate fluctuations;  

 

  •   certification requirements;  

 

  •   reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;  

 

  •   potentially adverse tax consequences; and  

 

  •   political and economic instability.  

 

While we expect our international revenues to be denominated predominantly in U.S. dollars, in the future a portion of our international revenues and expenses may be denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, we could experience the risks of fluctuating currencies and corresponding exchange rates. 

 

Our Business Has Been Subject To Fluctuations in Quarterly Results And Continued Fluctuations Could Negatively Impact Our Stock Price.    The market price of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results. Revenues and results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. For example, as a result of revenues associated with any of our key customers, any cancellation of orders from a key customer could result in significant fluctuations in quarterly results. Quarterly results have also been and may continue to be affected by asset write-downs associated with communications market weakness, our recent headquarters and plant consolidations and other matters, including negative cash flow. 

 

Our Stock Price Has Been, And May Continue To Be, Subject To Large Price Swings Which We Are Not Able To Control.    Broad market fluctuations or fluctuations in our operations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. The market for our Common Stock is volatile, the bid-ask spread is usually large and the trading volume and activity is low and sporadic. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and will continue to be subject to: 

 

  •   volatility in the trading markets generally and in our particular market segment;  

 

  •   limited trading of our common stock;  

 

  •   significant fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results;  

 

  •   announcements regarding our business or the business of our customers or competitors;  

 

  •   changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services;  

 

  •   changes in product mix;  

 

  •   changes in revenue and revenue growth rates; and  

 

  •   other events or factors.  

 

Statements of or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, the stock market as a whole, as well as our particular market segment, have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market price for the securities of many companies and which often have appeared unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. 

 

 

22 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
The Fact That We Do Not Expect To Pay Dividends May Lead To A Decreased Price For Our Stock.    Our Board has never declared a dividend on our Common Stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends on the Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Due to U.S. tax law changes in 2003, dividends may be more valuable on an after-tax basis as a component of investment return, potentially diminishing the appeal of holding our Common Stock. It is anticipated that our earnings, if any, will be reinvested in sales growth activities for our business. 

 

Our Management And Principal Shareholders Control A Substantial Amount Of Our Stock And May, Therefore, Influence Our Affairs.    If our management and a few principal shareholders act in concert, disposition of matters submitted to shareholders or the election of the entire Board of Directors may be hindered. We estimate that management, including directors, and our principal shareholders (shareholders owning more than 5% of our Common Stock) beneficially owned approximately 7.7% of the aggregate Common Stock outstanding as of September 2003. 

 

Our Charter Documents And Delaware Law May Inhibit A Takeover.    In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that will inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our Common Stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and certain other agreements contain certain provisions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include, but are not limited to: 

 

  •   staggered-terms of service for our Board of Directors,  

 

  •   the authorization of the Board of Directors to issue shares of undesignated preferred stock in one or more series without the specific approval of the stockholders,  

 

  •   the fact that in 1998 we adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend distribution of a right to purchase one share of Series D Participating Preferred Stock for each outstanding share of Class A common stock. The description and terms of such rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement dated as of May 1, 1998 between LightPath and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent. A copy of the Rights Agreement and related documents are filed as an Exhibit to this report.  

 

  •   the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings, and  

 

  •   the fact that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by our Chairman, President or upon the request of a majority of the Board of Directors.  

 

All of these provisions, as well as the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (to which we are subject), could impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. 

 

Outstanding Warrants, Stock Options and Restricted Stock Agreements May Inhibit Our Ability To Accomplish Future Financings and Adversely Affect Our Stock Price.    The existence of our outstanding warrants, options and restricted stock and the potential for sales of significant amounts of previously unregistered shares of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional financing or the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. As of June 30, 2003 there were issued and outstanding: 

 

  •   2,584,591 shares of our Common Stock;  

 

  •   warrants issued in private placement and other transactions pursuant to which 37,412 shares of Common Stock are issuable, at an average exercise price of approximately $51 per share; and  

 

  •   outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 124,772 shares of Common Stock, with an average exercise price of approximately $33 per share.  

 

  •   restricted stock award grants, none of which are vested, for 184,604 shares of Common Stock have been granted.  

 

 

23 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
In addition, approximately 66,000 shares of Common Stock were reserved as of June 30, 2003 for issuance pursuant to future grants to be made under our Amended and Restated Omnibus Incentive Plan. 

 

For the life of such options and warrants, the holders will have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the price of the underlying common stock, with a resulting dilution in the interest of other holders of common stock upon exercise or conversion. Further, the option and warrant holders can be expected to exercise their options and warrants at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain additional capital by an offering of our unissued common stock on terms more favorable than those originally provided by such options or warrants. Of the total number of shares of Common Stock currently issued and outstanding, we estimate that there are no unregistered shares of Common Stock outstanding, some of which may be freely traded or may be traded under certain volume and other restrictions set forth in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. 

 

The eligibility of the foregoing shares to be sold to the public, whether pursuant to an effective registration statement, Rule 144 or an exemption from the registration requirements may have a material adverse effect on the market value and trading price of the Common Stock, for which we cannot predict. 

 

We Have Agreed To Certain Limitations Upon Potential Liability Of Our Directors, Which Could Prevent Recovery Of Monetary Damages.    Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that directors will not be personally liable for monetary damages to the Company or its shareholders for a breach of fiduciary duty as a director, subject to limited exceptions. Although such limitation of liability does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission, the presence of these provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation could prevent the recovery of monetary damages by the Company or its shareholders. 

 

We May Have Difficulty Obtaining Director And Officer Liability Insurance In Acceptable Amounts For Acceptable Rates.    We carry insurance protecting our officers and directors and us against claims relating to the conduct of our business. This insurance covers the costs incurred by companies and their management to defend against and resolve claims relating to management conduct and results of operations, such as securities class action claims. These claims are extremely expensive to defend against and resolve. Therefore we purchase and maintain insurance to cover some of these costs. We pay significant premiums to acquire and maintain this insurance, which is provided by third-party insurers, and we agree to underwrite a portion of such exposures under the terms of these insurance coverages. In recent years the premiums we have paid for this insurance have increased substantially. One result of recent economic conditions and the 2000-2003 decline in stock prices has been a substantial increase in the number of securities class actions and similar claims brought against public corporations and their management. Many, if not all, of these actions and claims are, and will likely continue to be, at least partially insured by third-party insurers. Consequently, insurers providing director and officer liability insurance have in recent periods sharply increased the premiums they charge for this insurance, raised retentions (that is, the amount of liability that a company is required to itself pay to defend and resolve a claim before any applicable insurance is provided), and limited the amount of insurance they will provide. Moreover, insurers typically now provide only one-year policies. During fiscal 2004 we will be seeking to renew our director and officer insurance. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain what we adjudge to be sufficient director and officer liability insurance coverage at acceptable rates and with acceptable deductibles and other limitations. Further, due to our available financial resources at the time the current coverage expires, we may be unable to pay for or we may choose not to seek as much coverage as we adjudge to be sufficient. Failure or inability to obtain such insurance, or the election to accept less than we adjudge sufficient or none at all, could materially harm our financial condition in the event that we are required to defend against and resolve any future securities class actions or other claims made against us or our management arising from the conduct of our operations. Further, obtaining such insurance in an inadequate amount or obtaining none at all may impair our future ability to retain and recruit qualified officers and directors. 

 

Our Failure to Maintain Compliance With Certain Listing Criteria Of The Nasdaq Stock Market Could Adversely Affect the Value of Our Common Stock.    The Company’s Common Stock is currently traded on the 

 

24 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Nasdaq National Market. Failure to meet the applicable quantitative and/or qualitative maintenance requirements of Nasdaq could result in our securities being delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. The continuing listing requirements (Standard 1) of the Nasdaq National Market are: 

 

Description

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Requirement

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    LightPath

at June 30, 2003

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
   
Stockholders’ equity
    $10 million    $11.2 million 
   
Publicly held shares
    750,000    approx. 2.4 million 
   
Market value of publicly held shares
    $5 Million    approx. $6.7 million 
   
Minimum bid price per share
    $1.00    $2.80 low on
6/30/03 
   
Shareholders (round lot holders)
    400    approx. 13,000, as
reported to us by
our stock transfer
agent 
   
Market makers
    2    11 market makers
(non-ECN) reported
in June 2003 
   
Corporate governance
    Rules 4350 and
4351    We believe that we
meet these
requirements 

 

In fiscal 2003, our Common stock traded below the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement requiring us to initiate a 1-for-8 reverse stock split effective in March 2003. If delisted from the Nasdaq National Market, our securities may be eligible for trading on the Nasdaq Small Cap Market, the OTC Bulletin Board or on other unlisted markets such as The Pink Sheets, although there can be no assurance that our securities will be eligible for trading on any alternative exchanges or markets. As a consequence of such delisting, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our securities. Among other consequences, delisting from Nasdaq may cause a decline in the stock price and difficulty in obtaining future financing. 

 

Business Interruptions Could Adversely Affect Our Business.    Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, hurricane winds and rain, electric power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan and now operate from a single site. We carry only a limited amount of business interruption insurance, which may not sufficiently compensate us for losses that may occur. Our facilities may be subject to electrical blackouts as a consequence of a shortage of available electrical power. We currently do not have backup generators or alternate sources of power in the event of a blackout. If blackouts interrupt our power supply, we would be temporarily unable to continue operations at our facility. Any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of blackouts or other business interruptions, including the aforementioned, could impair our reputation, harm our ability to retain existing customers and to obtain new customers, and could result in lost revenue, any of which could substantially harm our business and the results of operations. 

 

Our Business Depends, In Part, Upon The Efforts Of Third Parties, Which We Can Not Control.    Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of certain products entails entering into various arrangements with corporate partners, OEMs, licensees and others in order to generate product sales, license fees, royalties and other funds adequate for product development. We may also rely on our collaborative partners to conduct research efforts, product testing and to manufacture and market certain of our products. Although we believe that parties to any such arrangements would have an economic motivation to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities may not be within our control. There can also be no assurance that we will be successful in establishing any such 

 

25 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
collaborative arrangements or that, if established, the parties to such arrangements will assist us in commercializing products. We have a non-exclusive agreement with a catalog company to distribute certain of our products. We have agreements with eight foreign distributors to create markets for GRADIUM and our other products in their respective countries. There can be no assurance, however, that these parties, or any future partners, will perform their obligations as expected or that any revenue will be derived from such arrangements. 

 

Future Acquisitions To Add to Our Product, Process or Management Capabilities May Fail To Produce The Desired Benefits and Will Likely Be Dilutive to Existing Shareholders.    We anticipate that in the future, as part of our business strategy, we may make strategic acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. In the event of any such future acquisitions, we could: 

 

  •   issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership;  

 

  •   incur debt;  

 

  •   assume liabilities; or  

 

  •   incur expenses related to in-process research and development and intangible assets.  

 

Any future acquisitions also could involve numerous risks, including: 

 

  •   problems associated with combining the acquired operations, technologies or products;  

 

  •   unanticipated costs or liabilities;  

 

  •   diversion of management’s attention from our existing business;  

 

  •   adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;  

 

  •   risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and  

 

  •   potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired entities.  

 

We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, which may harm our business. 

 

The Loss of, or Our Inability to Hire, Key Personnel Would Reduce Our Ability To Manage Our Business Effectively.    Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive and non-executive officers and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel. Our inability to retain or attract key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operations depend, to a great extent, upon the efforts of our senior officers. We also depend upon our ability to attract additional members to our management and operations teams to support our new markets strategy. The loss of any of these key employees would adversely affect our business. We had 71 full-time employees on June 30, 2003. Although we reduced our workforce by 96 people during fiscal 2003, we expect to continue to hire selectively in the manufacturing, engineering, sales and marketing and administrative functions to the extent consistent with our business levels. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs, which could adversely impact our ability to develop and sell our products. 

 

B.     Risks Related To The Optical Networking Industry 

 

Sales Of Many of Our Products Depend Upon Use Of Optical Networks To Satisfy Increased Bandwidth Requirements.    Our future success depends on the continuing increase in the amount of data transmitted over communications networks, or bandwidth, and the growth of optical networks to meet the increased demand for bandwidth. If the internet does not continue to expand as a widespread communications medium and commercial marketplace, the need for significantly increased bandwidth across networks and the market for optical networking products may not continue to develop. Future demand for our products is uncertain and will depend to a great degree on the continued growth and upgrading of optical networks. If the growth and upgrading of optical networks does not continue, sales of our products may decline, which would adversely affect our revenues. 

 

 

26 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
The Optical Networking Market Is New And Unpredictable And Characterized By Rapid Technological Changes And Evolving Standards.    The optical networking market is relatively new and is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Because this market is relatively new, it is difficult to predict its potential size or future growth rate. Widespread adoption of optical networks is critical to our future success. Potential end-user customers who have invested substantial resources in their existing copper lines or other systems may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach, like optical networks. Our success in generating revenues in this emerging market will depend on, among other things: 

 

  •   maintaining and enhancing our relationships with our customers;  

 

  •   the education of potential end-user customers and network service providers about the benefits of optical networks; and  

 

  •   our ability to accurately predict and develop our products to meet industry standards.  

 

If we are unable to do any of the foregoing, or if we fail to address changing market conditions, the sales of our products may decline, which would adversely impact our revenues. 

 

We Anticipate Further Reductions in the Average Selling Prices Of Our Products and Therefore Must Increase Our Sales Volumes, Reduce Our Costs and/or Introduce Higher Margin Products To Reach And Maintain Financial Stability.    We have experienced decreases in the average selling prices of some of our products, including most of our passive component products. We anticipate that as products in the optical component and module market become more commodity-like, the average selling prices of our products will decrease in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us, our competitors or other factors. The optical component and module market is experiencing extreme volatility as a result of lower product demand, which will make it difficult for us to increase our sales volume. If we are unable to offset this anticipated decrease in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or product mix, our net revenues and gross margins will decline. In addition, to maintain or improve our gross margins, we must continue to reduce the manufacturing cost of our products, and we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements with higher margins. If we cannot maintain or improve our gross margins, our financial position may be harmed and our stock price may decline. 

 

C.    Risks Related To Manufacturing Our Products 

 

If We Do Not Accurately Project Demand For Our Products, We Will Have Excess Manufacturing Capacity Or Insufficient Manufacturing Capacity Which Can Adversely Affect Our Financial Results.    We currently manufacture all of our products in our facilities located in Orlando, Florida, after consolidating our prior three sites into one during fiscal 2003. Based on the recent unfavorable changes in U.S. economic conditions and in our markets, we realized lower demand for our products would continue through at least fiscal 2004. We intend to operate at a “right-sized” production level during fiscal 2004 while retaining flexibility to meet demand if it should increase in the near future. 

 

Our Failure To Accurately Forecast Material Requirements Could Cause Us To Incur Additional Costs, Have Excess Inventories Or Have Insufficient Materials To Build Our Products.    We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our materials requirements. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary materials. Lead times for materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for the materials at a given time. If we overestimate our material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, in order to avoid excess material inventories we may incur cancellation charges associated with modifying existing purchase orders with our vendors. 

 

 

27 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
If We Do Not Achieve Acceptable Manufacturing Yields Or Sufficient Product Reliability, Our Ability To Ship Products To Our Customers Could Be Delayed.    The manufacture of our products involves complex and precise processes. Our manufacturing costs for several products are relatively fixed, and, thus, manufacturing yields are critical to our results of operations. Changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our suppliers, or the use of defective materials, could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields and product reliability. In addition, we may experience manufacturing delays and reduced manufacturing yields upon introducing new products to our manufacturing lines. We may experience lower than targeted product yields in the future which could adversely affect our operating results. 

 

If Our Customers Do Not Qualify Our Manufacturing Lines For Volume Shipments, Our Operating Results Could Suffer.    Generally, customers do not purchase our products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. Customers may require that we be registered under international quality standards, such as ISO 9001. This customer qualification process determines whether our manufacturing lines meet the customers’ quality, performance and reliability standards. If there are delays in qualification of our products, our customers may drop the product from a long-term supply program, which would result in significant lost revenue opportunity over the term of that program. 

 

We Depend On Single Or Limited Source Suppliers For Some Of The Key Materials In Our Products, Which Makes Us Susceptible To Supply Shortages Or Price Fluctuations.    We currently purchase several key materials used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited source suppliers. We may fail to obtain required materials in a timely manner in the future, or could experience further delays from evaluating and testing the products of these potential alternative suppliers. The decline in demand in the telecommunications equipment industry may have adversely impacted the financial condition of certain of our suppliers, some of whom have limited financial resources. We have in the past, and may in the future, be required to provide advance payments in order to secure key materials from financially limited suppliers. Financial or other difficulties faced by these suppliers could limit the availability of key components or materials. Additionally, financial difficulties could impair our ability to recover advances made to these suppliers. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these materials, or the inability to obtain these materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders, negatively affecting our business. 

 

Our Products May Contain Unknown Defects Which Would Adversely Affect Our Business.    Some of our products are designed to be deployed in large and complex optical networks. Because of the nature of these products, they can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in networks for long periods of time. Our fiber optic products may contain undetected defects when first introduced or as new versions are released, and our customers may discover defects in our products only after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, our products often are combined with products from other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: 

 

  •   loss of customers;  

 

  •   damage to our brand reputation;  

 

  •   failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance;  

 

  •   diversion of development and engineering resources; and  

 

  •   legal actions by our customers or third parties.  

 

The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could cause our net revenues to decline or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. 

 

 

28 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
We Face Product Liability Risks Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business.    The sale of our optical products involve the inherent risk of product liability claims by others. We do not currently maintain product liability insurance coverage. Product liability insurance is expensive, subject to various coverage exclusions and may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us if we decide to procure such insurance in the future. Moreover, the amount and scope of any coverage may be inadequate to protect us in the event that a product liability claim is successfully asserted. Should any such claim be asserted and successfully litigated by an adverse party, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial position and results of operations. 

 

D.    Risks Related To Our Intellectual Property 

 

If We Are Unable To Protect And Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights, We May Be Unable To Compete Effectively.    We believe that our patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position, and we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Although we have devoted substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our intellectual property rights, the actions taken by us may be inadequate to prevent imitation or improper use of our products by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their intellectual property rights by us. 

 

In addition, we cannot assure that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents that we may be issued will protect our intellectual property or that third parties will not challenge any issued patents. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We also rely on confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with our employees, consultants and corporate partners to protect our proprietary rights, but we cannot assure the compliance by such parties with their confidentiality obligations, which could be very time consuming and expensive to enforce. 

 

It may be necessary to litigate to enforce our patents, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation can be time consuming, distracting to management, expensive and difficult to predict. Our failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operation. 

 

We May Become Involved In Intellectual Property Disputes And Litigation Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business.    We anticipate, based on the size and sophistication of our competitors and the history of rapid technological advances in our industry, that several competitors may have patent applications in progress in the United States or in foreign countries that, if issued, could relate to products similar to ours. If such patents were to be issued, the patent holders or licensees may assert infringement claims against us or claim that we have violated other intellectual property rights. These claims and any resulting lawsuits, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. The lawsuits, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation could also force us to do one or more of the following, any of which could harm our business: 

 

  •   stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the disputed intellectual property;  

 

  •   obtain from third parties a license to sell or use the disputed technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or  

 

  •   redesign our products that use the disputed intellectual property.  

 

Necessary Licenses Of Third-Party Technology May Not Be Available To Us Or May Be Very Expensive.    From time to time we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. We can provide no assurance that third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm our ability to manufacture and sell our products. 
