Item 1. Business. 

 

General 

 

LightPath Technologies, Inc. (“LightPath” or “Company”) manufactures optical components and higher level assemblies including precision molded glass aspheric optics, isolators, proprietary fiber-optic collimators, GRADIUM® glass lenses and other optical materials used to produce products that manipulate light. We design, develop, manufacture and distribute optical components and assemblies utilizing advanced optical manufacturing processes. Our products are incorporated into a variety of applications by our customers in many industries, including defense products, medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, hybrid fiber coax (datacom and telecom), machine vision and sensors, among others. All the products that we produce enable lasers and imaging devices to do their jobs: 

 

  • Molded glass aspheres are in various high performance optical applications.  

 

  • Isolators prevent the back-reflection of optical signals that can degrade optical transmitter and amplifier performance whenever light must enter or exit a fiberoptic cable (“fiber”).  

 

  • Collimators are assemblies that are used to straighten and make parallel diverging light as it exits a fiber.  

 

  • GRADIUM extends the performance of a spherically polished glass lens technology, improving optical performance and approaching aspheric performance at a fraction of the price.  

 

LightPath was incorporated under Delaware law in June 1992 as the successor to LightPath Technologies LP, a New Mexico limited partnership formed in 1989, and its predecessor, Integrated Solar Technologies Corporation, a New Mexico corporation, organized in 1985. We completed an initial public offering of our common stock in 1996. From our inception in 1985 until June 1996, we were classified for as a “development stage enterprise” that primarily engaged in basic research and development with an initial objective to improve solar energy technology. Over time, we expanded our attention to other optics applications using GRADIUM glass lenses. 

 

During fiscal 1998, we reorganized our sales and marketing efforts with the purpose of expanding our attention to include markets such as optoelectronics and photonics due to the number of potential customer inquiries into the ability of GRADIUM glass to solve optoelectronic problems, specifically in the areas of fiber telecommunications. Simultaneously, we developed a strategy to enter the telecom optical components market using a concept of automated production of telecom components using laser fusion and fiber attachment techniques we developed. Our now patented laser fusion and fiber attachment techniques are substantially automated and we believe these techniques provided improved quality and production flexibility. Our automation theme was expanded with our fiscal 2000 acquisition of Horizon Photonics, Inc. (“Horizon”), a California corporation originally founded in July 1997, where we acquired the use of robotic systems in manufacturing isolators. 

 

Horizon utilized automated production platforms to manufacture passive optical components for the telecommunications and data communications markets. We acquired all of the outstanding shares of Horizon for approximately 175,000 shares of our Class A common stock and $1 million in cash (an aggregate purchase price of approximately $40.2 million, based on the then-market price of our common stock). Horizon manufactured isolator products in California prior to May 2003 when the site was consolidated with the facilities in Orlando, Florida. The Horizon legal entity was dissolved during fiscal 2004. 

 

In September 2000, we acquired Geltech, Inc. (“Geltech”), a Delaware corporation originally founded in May 1985. Geltech is a manufacturer of precision molded glass aspheric optics, which have broad applicability to numerous application markets. Precision molded glass aspheric optics are also used in the active telecom 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
components market to provide a highly efficient means to couple laser diodes to fibers or waveguides. We acquired all of the outstanding shares of Geltech for approximately 103,000 shares of our Class A common stock and approximately $1 million in acquisition costs (an aggregate purchase price of approximately $28.5 million, based on the then-market price of our common stock). We manufacture these products at our facility in Orlando, Florida. During fiscal 2002, we expanded the Orlando manufacturing facility, and in fiscal 2003, in order to reduce costs, we relocated our corporate headquarters to Orlando and reorganized our manufacturing facility there to accommodate all of the production previously performed in New Mexico for GRADIUM glass lenses and collimators as well as the isolator product line from California. 

 

From 1998 until 2002, the Company’s intense pursuit of optoelectronics and photonics applications led it to become heavily reliant on the telecommunications capital equipment market, which went through a rapid and substantial increase and a similarly rapid and substantial decline in these five years. This drove the Company’s product development and acquisition strategies during this time and led to an increase in reported revenues from under $1 million to over $26 million and then to a decline to under $7 million in fiscal 2003. As a result of activities during this five-year period, the Company found it necessary to reduce costs significantly by consolidating all production and corporate headquarters in Florida. Once we consolidated all Company operations to one site under one management group and with one sales force, we determined that our former operating segments of Optical Lenses and Laser Components were no longer reportable operating segments and, as such, we operate a single business with the aforementioned optical component product lines. 

 

Business Strategy 

 

Our strategy of the last two years has been to move away from emphasizing strictly telecom markets toward our traditional optics customer base, which represents over 1,000 companies engaged in a wide variety of markets. We felt we had not emphasized applications with these customers during the telecommunications boom and we are working hard to service and participate in the development of their next generation of applications and products. We continue to serve a number of telecom customers, but most of them are in a broader market of communications, including datacom, hybrid-fiber coax and wireless communications. 

 

Because complex customer application systems can contain many optical components and our products can be utilized to reduce the number or type of lens elements in such systems, we believe that our products can simplify the design and improve the performance of such complex optical systems. However, design and production of an optical product is a lengthy process, and it may take years for producers to redesign complex optical systems using our products, reconfigure the product housing, re-engineer the assembly process and initiate commercial quantity orders for our products. Accordingly, we intend to focus our long-term marketing efforts on emerging industries, such as medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors and performance-driven industries that are seeking to optimize performance of new and existing optical products. 

 

For a discussion of our key performance indicators, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (page 29). 

 

Molded Aspheres 

 

We have rights under a royalty-free perpetual license to the precision molded optics process originally developed by Corning, Inc., whose business in this field we acquired in 1994. Products manufactured using this technology include glass aspheric lenses, including wafer-scale lenses, sub-millimeter lenses, lens arrays, anamorphic lenses and hybrid optical components. 

 

Our molded glass aspheres are used in a wide variety of laser and imaging applications in optical data storage, high precision printing, barcode scanning, environmental monitoring, machine vision, sensors, laser-to-fiber coupling, and medical equipment. We are aggressively pursuing new sales opportunities in, for example, the application areas of medical devices and anamorphic corrections. 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
We continue to sell aspheric lenses for various communications applications. Glass aspheric lenses and lens arrays are used to perform two major tasks. One is the collimation of light as it emerges from the fiber. The second major task is coupling and focusing light at the output of a laser diode to a fiber or waveguide. Glass provides high performance and wavelength stability over fluctuating temperatures. 

 

Isolators 

 

We have developed a family of products that utilize a proprietary micro-fixture design and robotic platform processes. This automated process allows for micro-optics to be mounted in small transferable fixtures that are processed in arrays and converted into a variety of optical components and component subsystems. This flexible platform is capable of producing a variety of finished products including isolators. We are manufacturing a qualified family of free-space, laminate and custom isolators. We sell isolator assemblies for applications in all communications markets. This line is based on a manufacturing platform that can address a wide range of customer specifications, while supporting lower cost applications. Sales of isolators improved in fiscal 2004, and we continue to serve the communications market while working towards sales into other market applications. 

 

Collimators 

 

During 1998, we began the development of products for the then-emerging optoelectronics markets, specifically in the areas of fiber telecommunications. Our standard collimator products provide higher performance in back reflection and insertion loss and can withstand in excess of 10 watts of optical power. The process to manufacture these collimators uses patented laser fusion technologies and robotics. These products may incorporate aspheric molded optics and GRADIUM lenses. During 1999 and 2000, we expanded this product line, demonstrating to the telecommunication optical components industry that we can provide low-cost products and solutions to meet their telecom-related collimator needs. Beginning in 2001, the telecom equipment market slowed dramatically, reducing the demand for the optical components segment of the market. Due to the decline of this initial market segment, we began investigating other opportunities incorporating our unique patented laser fusion technology. We are currently developing high power collimator products for fiber laser applications and have introduced certain new collimator product features during fiscal 2004 in order to address those markets. 

 

GRADIUM® Lenses 

 

GRADIUM glass was developed by us beginning in 1985 and is an optical quality glass material with axially varying refractive index, capable of reducing optical aberrations inherent in conventional lenses and performing with a single lens tasks traditionally performed by multi-element, conventional lens systems. Typical applications include surgical lasers, high power YAG lasers for welding, cutting and marking, defense-market uses, and test and measurement. Because GRADIUM glass can concentrate light transmission into a much smaller focal spot than conventional spherical lenses, we believe that GRADIUM glass has the ability to improve the current standards of laser performance in some applications. 

 

Our growth strategy continues to be to increase our emphasis on key laser market niches in the U.S., Europe and Asia to establish the necessary products and partnership alliances to sell into these markets. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 we sold some of our GRADIUM production equipment to an Asian company as part of a licensing agreement whereby they will manufacture GRADIUM glass for LightPath and distribute lenses to their own customers in Asia. This agreement was renegotiated in fiscal 2003, whereby we obtain a royalty for their GRADIUM sales and we will maintain U.S. GRADIUM production. Recently we announced a distribution agreement with a specialty distributor to further assist in obtaining penetration into the high-power YAG laser end-market. 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Optical Assemblies 

 

We are currently producing optical assemblies based on our proprietary technologies. We are working to design, build and sell optical assemblies into the markets for test and measurement, medical devices, military, industrial and communications. 

 

Sales and Marketing 

 

Extensive product diversity and varying levels of product maturity characterize the optics industry. Product markets range from consumer (e.g., cameras, copiers) to industrial (e.g., lasers, data storage), from products where the lenses are the central feature (e.g., telescopes, microscopes) to products incorporating lens components (e.g., robotics, semiconductor production equipment). As communications technology continues to move toward an all-optical network, various optics are required for bandwidth expansion and improved data transfer. As a result, the markets for our products is highly segmented and no single marketing approach will allow us to access all available market segments. 

 

From fiscal 1998 to fiscal 2002, the Company’s sales and marketing strategy was designed to capitalize on the growing demand for optical components for telecom. Since that time, there have been substantial changes in our organization, structure and sales strategies. Because we are relying on multiple markets and market segments to diversify our sales base, we have made necessary changes in our sales force and sales strategies, particularly in fiscal 2004, to strengthen our sales presence in markets we deliver value to. 

 

Sales Organization 

 

Our sales staff is trained to promote and sell all of our product lines to our customers. In order to be more accessible to potential customers we have divided our sales staff into the following territories: 

 

   
U.S. East Coast & Eastern Canada
    Asia 
U.S. West Coast & Western Canada
    Europe 
U.S. Central
      

 

In addition, we have formalized relationships with nine industrial, laser, optoelectronics and medical component distributors located in foreign countries and in the U.S. to assist in distribution of our products geographically outside the United States and in highly specific target markets. Because the optics industry is highly fragmented, we utilize these distributors, certain catalog distributors, our own catalog and our internet site (www.lightpath.com) as vehicles for broader promotion of our products. We make limited use of print media advertisements in various trade magazines and will participate in appropriate domestic and foreign trade shows. 

 

Trade Shows 

 

We have displayed our product line additions and enhancements at one or more trade shows each year. For example, we participated in Photonics West in California in January 2004. We introduced two new products at that show as examples of how we believe LightPath can provide added value to our customers (see New Products below). Such a strategy also underscores LightPath’s strategic directive of broadening our base of innovative optical components and assemblies. These shows provide an opportunity to meet with potential customers, to distribute information and samples of our products and to discuss test results from samples previously sent. 

 

New Products 

 

During 2004 we increased our sales efforts in targeting GRADIUM lenses to laser applications, particularly industrial laser markets where GRADIUM lenses increase the quality of YAG laser cuts and welds. This effort included delivering GRADIUM lenses in customized mounts and holders to make change-out simple and quick at the laser head. While so far modest, we have seen some increased market acceptance. 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
During 2004, at Photonics West, we introduced new large-beam collimator designs that are “ruggedized” to meet the demands of non-communications market applications such as defense, industrial, medical, and test and measurement applications. As recently as fiscal 2002, the target market for our collimator products was concentrated within the telecommunications field. 

 

At the same Photonics West show, we introduced our new CircuLightTM lens technology. CircuLight is a small form-factor optic that circularizes elliptical laser diode output. Applications are growing in various wavelengths including blue for use in many existing and upcoming products designed for the next generation of entertainment systems and industrial applications. 

 

Our efforts in new product development are to broaden our capabilities toward areas in addition to communications markets, where our customers ask for more demanding optical performance. In addition to the products mentioned above, we are skilled at design and production of optical assemblies that combine two or more of our current components, such as molded aspheres and an isolator, into a subassembly. We believe these optical assemblies, which solve multiple optical problems in one package, have produced higher gross profit margins for us than the individual components. 

 

Competition 

 

The market for optical components generally is highly competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with manufacturers of conventional spherical lens products and optical components, providers of aspheric lenses and optical components and producers of optical quality glass. To a lesser extent, we compete with developers of radial gradient lenses and optical components. Most of these competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. 

 

Manufacturers of conventional lenses and optical components include corporations such as Eastman Kodak Corporation, Nikon, Olympus Optical Company, Carl Zeiss and Leica AG. In addition to being substantial producers of optical components, these entities are also some of the primary customers for such components, incorporating them into finished products for sale to end-users. Consequently, these competitors have significant control over certain markets for our products. In addition, although these companies do not manufacture axial gradient lenses, and although we believe that we have substantial technological expertise in this field, these companies could rapidly pursue development of axial gradient products, in light of their substantial resources. In addition, our products compete with other products currently produced by these manufacturers. 

 

Aspheric lenses 

 

Manufacturers of aspheric lenses provide significant competition for our molded glass aspheric lenses in providing products that improve the shortcomings of conventional lenses. Aspheric lens system manufacturers include Eastman Kodak Corporation and Hoya Corporation. The use of aspheric surfaces provides the optical designer with a powerful tool in correcting spherical aberrations and enhancing performance in state-of-the-art optical products. Plastic molded aspheres, on the other hand, allow for high volume production, but primarily are limited to consumer products that do not place a high demand on performance (such as plastic lenses in disposable or mobile phone cameras). Molded plastic aspheres appear in products that stress cost as their measure of success over performance and durability. 

 

To a limited extent, our GRADIUM material competes with manufacturers of other gradient index lens materials. Currently, processes to produce gradient index materials include ion-exchange and chemical vapor deposition, both of which produce small radial gradient index rods with limited applications. Manufacturers using these processes include Nippon Sheet Glass, Olympus Optical Company, and Gradient Lens Corporation. 

 

Isolators 

 

We compete with a few specific players in the isolator segment of the components market. These include Namiki, TDK, Tokin, Kyocera, Sumitomo and Kaifa (JDS Uniphase). Our strategy does not involve direct 

 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
competition with the “catalog” offerings of these companies; rather, we focus our efforts on designing and manufacturing specialty and hybrid components according to particular OEM specifications. 

 

Collimators 

 

There are currently only a handful of direct competitors for our collimating lenses and collimators. Nippon Sheet Glass currently supplies the majority of collimator lenses. The collimator lens is a separate business from Nippon Sheet Glass’s primary product, automotive glass. Our collimator competes against existing collimator assemblies, which are produced by Casix (acquired by JDS Uniphase), DiCon Fiberoptics, Samsung Electronics, Wave Optics and Oz Optics. There are also a number of companies that assemble their own collimators, such as JDS Uniphase. Some of these competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than LightPath. 

 

Manufacturing 

 

Molded Aspheres and GRADIUM 

 

All of our manufacturing is done in a 41,000 square foot production facility in Orlando, Florida. With unused space remaining in this facility, we believe our space is adequate to accommodate foreseeable needs of the Company. The facility features areas for each step of the manufacturing process including tooling and coating work areas, pre-form manufacturing, and a clean room for pressing and integrated assembly. The production facility retains an emphasis on automation, particularly in the isolator and collimator lines moved from California and New Mexico, respectively, in fiscal 2003. The facility includes new product development labs and space that include development and metrology equipment. 

 

The molded glass asphere manufacturing area includes lens pressing equipment, high precision mold production equipment, advanced metrology and inspection equipment and coating facilities. The plant also features a tooling and machine shop, which can support: new product development; commercial production requirements for our lens holders; and the fabrication of proprietary press workstations and mold equipment. 

 

In Orlando, we have furnaces to produce boules and glass coring equipment for our current needs of GRADIUM for our sales in the U.S. and Europe. We also obtain GRADIUM boules from Hikari Glass in Japan, from whom we have an agreement to obtain a royalty for their sales of GRADIUM in Asia. 

 

We are ISO 9000:2001 certified. Much of our product qualification is performed in-house. Our test and evaluation capabilities include Damp Heat, High/Low Temp Storage, and a Thermal Shock Oven, which are representative of the equipment required to meet Telcordia requirements and other customer required product specifications. Our New Product Development department has CAD tools and technical support. The continuing implementation of various statistical process controls (SPC’s) is being pursued to improve product yields and allow us to reduce costly manual testing operations. Quality control in manufacturing to ensure a quality end product is critical to our ability to bring our products to market as our customers demand rigorous testing prior to their purchase of our products. 

 

Isolators 

 

In our Orlando clean room, our isolator manufacturing equipment includes dual beam laser welding stations, sub-micron alignment engines, robotic assembly stations, automated dispensing systems and precision dicing equipment. The primary benefits of our approach to manufacturing are (i) reduced costs as a result of higher yields and throughput, and (ii) product consistency as a result of eliminating manual labor. We believe we are the only manufacturer of free-space isolators currently using automated manufacturing. 

 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Collimators 

 

Our collimator assembly workstations in our Orlando clean room include our proprietary laser fusion and housing equipment, automated testing processes, and laser polishing stations. 

 

Subcontractors and Strategic Alliances 

 

We believe that low-cost manufacturing will be crucial to our long-term success. In that regard, we have generally used subcontractors in our production process to accomplish certain processing steps requiring capabilities that are specialized and that we have never acquired. For example, we presently use a number of qualified subcontractors for fabricating some lenses, polishing certain lenses where required, and coating them. 

 

Our proprietary GRADIUM boules are produced by an Asian partner under agreement with us, which remits a royalty to us for its sales to customers in Asia. This arrangement allows our product to gain sales exposure in Asia and provides us with a second source for boule production. 

 

We have taken steps to protect our proprietary methods of repeatable high-quality manufacturing by patent disclosures and internal trade secret controls. 

 

Suppliers 

 

We utilize a number of glass compositions for the manufacture of our molded glass aspheres and lens array products. However, one such glass is a glass composition licensed from and manufactured by Corning, Inc. and represents a substantial majority of our molded aspheric lens production. Corning is currently our sole source for this glass composition. We believe that a satisfactory supply of this Corning composition will continue to be available at competitive prices, although there can be no assurance in this regard. Additional sources of other glass compositions are available, and we have been testing such compositions in the event that their use becomes economically desirable to serve certain markets, or necessary due to the loss of Corning as a supplier. 

 

Base optical materials, used in both GRADIUM and collimator products, are manufactured and supplied by a number of major optical and glass manufacturers. Optical fiber and collimator housings are manufactured and supplied by a number of major manufacturers. We believe that a satisfactory supply of such production materials will continue to be available at reasonable prices, although there can be no assurance in this regard. 

 

We also rely on local and regional vendors for component materials and services such as chemicals and inert gases, specialty ceramics, UV and AR coatings, and other specialty coatings. To date, we have found a suitable number of qualified vendors for these materials and services. 

 

We currently purchase a few key materials from single or limited sources. The polarizing glass used in our isolator products is supplied primarily by Corning. To date, we have been able to acquire an ample supply of polarizing glass. Garnet and other crystals used in our isolator products are provided by a number of vendors, including Sumitomo, TDK and Triquint. Available quantities and adequate pricing of garnet is available in the open market. We believe that a satisfactory supply of production materials will continue to be available at competitive prices, although there can be no assurance in this regard. 

 

We rely on local and regional vendors for component materials such as housings, fixtures and magnets. In addition, certain products require external processing such as brazing and metalization. To date, we have found a suitable number of qualified vendors. 

 

Patents and Other Proprietary Intellectual Property 

 

Our policy is to protect our technology by, among other things, patents, trade secret protection, trademarks and copyrights. The products and technologies that we employ use patents that are both owned and maintained 

 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
by us and licensed to us by others. Patents have been issued, and/or patent applications have been filed, in the areas of glass composition, glass molding, gradient geometries, and certain production processes such as fiber attachment, robotic assembly and micro-fabrication. The first of our issued patents expires in 2006; the remainder expire at various times through 2019. Patent applications corresponding to some our U.S. applications have been filed in the patent offices in Europe and Japan pursuant to the Patent Cooperation Treaty. Under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, a patent applicant may file one patent application and have it acknowledged as an accepted filing in as many member nations to the Patent Cooperation Treaty as the applicant elects. 

 

In addition to patent protection, certain process inventions, lens designs and innovations are retained as trade secrets. A key feature of GRADIUM glass is that, once fabricated, it does not reveal our formula upon inspection and, to our knowledge, cannot be reverse-engineered. 

 

LightPath® is registered as a service mark in the United States and GRADIUM and Polycoat® are also registered trademarks. Other trademarks are held out and used by us under common law, such as CircuLight™. 

 

Issued patents owned or available to us may not afford adequate protection to us or may be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented. Patent applications relating to our products may not result in patents being issued. Patent rights granted to us for technologies that we may license in the future may not provide competitive advantages to us. Patents that are owned or licensed by us that are issued in one jurisdiction may not be issued in any other jurisdiction. The validity of any of our patents may not be upheld if challenged by others in litigation or if such litigation alleges that our activities infringe upon patents owned by others. 

 

Others may have independently developed or will independently develop and patent similar or superior products and technologies, duplicate any of our products or technologies or design around our patents. There may be patents issued to others that will adversely affect the development or commercialization of our products or technologies. We do not have an insurance policy for patent infringement liability coverage for costs or damages relating to claims of infringement. We could incur substantial costs in defending suits brought against us, or any of our licensees, or in suits in which we may assert that our patent or patents provide us with rights against others or in suits contesting the validity of a patent. Any such proceedings could be protracted. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in defending our patent rights in any future infringement action. If the outcome of any such litigation is adverse to our interests, our business may be materially adversely affected. 

 

We do not believe that any of our products or processes infringe any U.S. or foreign patent rights of any other party; however, our products or processes may infringe or be found to infringe on another party’s U.S. or foreign patent, or patent application. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in infringement litigation brought by others, or in prosecuting infringement claims against third parties. An adverse party claiming patent or copyright infringement might assert claims for substantial damages or seek to obtain an injunction or other equitable relief, which could effectively block the ability for us to make, use, distribute and sell products. 

 

We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and customers. However, our confidentiality agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Some of the confidentiality agreements that we rely upon will expire in the next few years. Others may independently develop technology or processes substantially equivalent to or better than our technology or processes and our trade secrets may otherwise become disclosed to or independently discovered by our competitors. 

 

Environmental and Governmental Regulation 

 

Currently, emissions and waste from our present manufacturing processes are at such low levels that no special environmental permits or licenses are required. In the future, we may need to obtain special permits for 

 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
disposal of increased waste by-products. The glass materials we utilize contain lead and other toxic elements in a stabilized molecular form. However, the high temperature diffusion process results in low-level emissions of such elements in gaseous form. If production reaches a certain level, we believe that we will be able to efficiently recycle certain of our raw material waste, thereby reducing disposal levels. We believe that we are presently in compliance with all material federal, state and local laws and regulations governing our operations and have obtained all material licenses and permits necessary for the operation of our business. 

 

We utilize certain chemicals, solvents and adhesives in our manufacturing process. We believe we maintain all necessary permits and believe we are in full compliance with all applicable regulations. 

 

To our knowledge there are currently no federal, state or local regulations that restrict the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Certain end-user applications require that the complete optical systems receive government approval, such as U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for use in endoscopy. In these cases, we will generally be involved on a secondary level and the OEM customer will be responsible for the license and approval process. 

 

New Product Development 

 

For many years, we were engaged in basic research and development that resulted in the invention of GRADIUM glass and certain proprietary processes for fabricating GRADIUM glass lenses. Thereafter, new product development efforts were broadened or acquired that led to the development of our capabilities in molded aspheric lenses, isolators and collimators. Today, however, as part of our cash conservation strategy, we conduct no basic research and development. Our efforts in this area are concentrated on product development to support existing and new customers in the design and manufacture of items in our three basic product lines: lenses, isolators and collimators. 

 

As a result, our present new product development efforts are focused on markets that include YAG lasers, defense, medical devices, barcode scanners, optical data storage, machine vision, sensors and environmental monitoring. We incurred expenditures for new product development during the fiscal years, 2004, 2003 and 2002 of $1,022,299, $2,801,709 and $7,109,415, respectively. We currently plan to expend approximately $1.3 million for new product development during fiscal 2005, which could vary depending upon revenue levels, customer requirements and market opportunities perceived. 

 

Employees 

 

At July 30, 2004, we have 88 full-time equivalent employees, primarily in Florida. Any employee additions or terminations over the next twelve months will be dependent upon the actual sales levels realized during fiscal 2005. Eight of our present employees are engaged in management, administrative and clerical functions, 8 in new product development, 9 1/2 in sales and marketing and 62 1/2 are in production and quality functions. Additionally we have 37 persons on temporary or contractor status. We have used and will continue utilizing part-time help, temporary employment agencies and outside consultants, where appropriate, to qualify prospective employees and to ramp up production as required from time to time. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. 

 

Executive Officers 

 

As of August 2004, the following individuals are serving as executive officers: 

 

Kenneth Brizel has served as a Director of LightPath, CEO and President since July 2002. Mr. Brizel has spent more than 20 years in the communications and microelectronics industries. From October 2000 until July 2002 he was Senior Vice President Strategy and Business Development for Oplink Communications. From April 1997 to September 2000, Mr. Brizel was Director of Strategic Marketing for Optoeletronics and Network Communications Integrated Circuits groups within Lucent Microelectronics. Mr. Brizel’s diverse experiences 

 

11 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
include assignments at RCA/GE, Lucent/Agere, Mostek and Star Semiconductor before joining Oplink. His responsibilities spanned sales, engineering, marketing strategy and business development. Mr. Brizel received his Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Electrical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York. 

 

Monty Allen has been Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer since August 2003. From August 2001 to July 2003, he was an independent business and financial consultant. Mr. Allen served as the CFO of GlobeNet Capital Corporation from August 1999 to August 2001. GlobeNet was a privately-held developer of trading system software, subsequently acquired by Archipelago. From August 1995 to August 1999, he was the CFO of Autonomous Technologies Corporation, a publicly-held developer of laser refractive surgical equipment, which is now part of Alcon Labs. Mr. Allen has earlier CFO and sales management experience as well public accounting experience at the start of his career with KPMG and Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Allen is a certified public accountant and earned an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and a Bachelor of Science in Accounting from Florida State University. 

 

Bruce Bernacki has been Chief Technology Officer since August 2003. Dr. Bernacki previously held the position of Vice President of Research and Development from September 2002 to August 2003. He joined our Geltech research and development group in July 2000, prior to its acquisition by LightPath. Earlier, Dr. Bernacki was in product development management positions with Siros Technologies from November 1999 to July 2000 and Iomega from September 1997 to November 1999. He has worked in the optics industry for 20 years holding positions in optical data storage for both magneto-optical and phase change media. His early career experience includes development positions with Oak Ridge National Laboratory and the U.S. Air Force. Dr. Bernacki is the inventor or co-inventor of five U.S. Patents and holds a Ph.D. and Master of Science in Optical Sciences, as well as a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, all from the University of Arizona. 

 

James Magos has been our Senior Vice President of Sales since August 2003. From January 1999 to August 2003, Mr. Magos was Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for Cardinal Components Inc., a crystal manufacturer. Earlier, he served as Vice President of Sales & Marketing for IQ Systems, Inc. and in other sales and marketing roles for Star Semiconductor, Logic Device Corporation, and Harris Semiconductors (Intersil). Mr. Magos earned his B.S. in Business Management from Long Island University and attended management training at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton Business School. 

 

Edward Patton has been our Vice President of Marketing since January 2003. He joined Geltech’s sales and marketing group in 1998, prior to its acquisition by LightPath. Mr. Patton has held a variety of senior positions in the photonics industry with firms that have marketed products including optics, detectors, thin-film filters, and laser diodes into such markets as medical, industrial, defense and communications. For example, Mr. Patton served as Vice President Sales & Marketing at both EG&G Optoelectronics and Graseby Electro-Optics and served as President & General Manager of Graseby Infrared. Mr. Patton earned his Bachelor of Science from Northeastern University. 

 

Robert Reichert has been our Vice President of Operations since March 2004. From April 2001 to October 2003, he was the COO of Covega, a high-tech, optoelectronic components manufacturer and from 1981 to April 2001 he was a manufacturing executive for Allied-Signal/Honeywell, most recently at their Centers for Microelectronic Technology and Solid State Electronics. Mr. Reichert has earned the Six Sigma Quality System “Black Belt” designation with training and experience in related disciplines such has lean manufacturing, total quality, integrated supply chain management, and other plant floor productivity initiatives. Mr. Reichert earned his B.S. in Business Management from the University of Maryland. 

 

12 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Risk Factors 

 

The following risk factors should be read by you together with the more detailed information included at other sections of this Form 10-K. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. An investment in our Common Stock is extremely risky. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information in this Form 10-K before investing in our Common Stock. Our business and the results of operations could be seriously harmed by any of the following risks. The trading price of our Common Stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. 

 

There are forward-looking statements in these risk factors and elsewhere in this report. We use words such as “believe”, “expect,” “anticipate,” “plan” or similar words to identify forward-looking statements and any statement relating to plans, intentions, expectations or other forward-looking expression is a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are made based upon our belief as of the date that such statements are made and are based largely on our current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak as of the date of this report. While we may make other forward-looking statements either orally or in writing in the future, we do not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The following risk factors are intended to be cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. 

 

Our fiscal year ends on June 30 and references to years in this Form 10-K refer to our fiscal year ended as of June 30 of the referenced calendar year. 

 

A. Risks Related To Our Business and Financial Results 

 

We Have A History Of Losses And If We Continue To Incur Losses Our Business May Fail. We have incurred net losses of $5.4 million, $21.2 million and $50.7 million for fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit approaching $183 million as of June 30, 2004. While our revenues increased modestly during fiscal 2004 for the first time since 2001 and our losses narrowed, we still will require higher levels of business in order to achieve profitability. In fiscal years 2002 and 2003, we experienced sharply reduced revenues due to the widespread softening of the U.S. economy and the telecommunications industry in particular. We experienced substantial order cancellations and abandonment primarily in fiscal 2002 and extensions of product shipment dates by our customers who adjusted their inventory levels in response to industry contraction. While these cancellations and extensions adversely impacted our revenues and resulted in higher inventory levels than required to support our sales levels at that time, we believe we have largely worked through those matters. Our success in achieving higher sales levels and reaching profitability is now conditioned on our current business strategy and its interplay with the multiple markets that we now serve. Even if we achieve profitability, given the competition in our optical markets, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. As a result, we will need to generate significantly higher revenues while containing costs and operating expenses if we are to achieve profitability. 

 

In fiscal 2004, as in fiscal 2003, we made progress toward reducing our operating cash outflow. However, the Company is not yet self-sustaining from a positive cash flow standpoint. The Company’s cash used in operations was approximately $0.4 million (of the $2.4 million used in the year) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Our fiscal 2005 operating plan and financial projections project sales growth, and improving margins, offset in part by increased operating expenses in all departments. The projections show the potential for achieving cash flow breakeven during the course of the 2005 fiscal year. However, the operating plans and financial projections may not be fully achieved. If the projections are not met, we may have to either raise debt or equity capital or further reduce operating costs to maintain a sufficient cash balance to operate throughout fiscal 2005. Factors which could increase cash used in future quarters include, but are not limited to, failure to extend recent sales increases into future quarters, actual declines in revenue, renewed collectibility issues with regard to 

 

13 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
accounts receivable, increased material costs, increased labor costs, increases in our annual insurance premiums for property and casualty, medical or director & officer liability coverages, and increases in discretionary spending. Should we find it necessary to raise additional funds, we may find that such funds are either not available or are available only on terms that are unattractive in terms of cost or dilution of existing shareholders’ interests, or both. In the event that we find it necessary to raise additional funds to sustain operations and we are unable to do so, we may need to take such actions as additional restructuring of operations to reduce costs, or to discontinue operations altogether. Should that occur, the realizability of our assets, especially inventory, property and equipment, intellectual property and our remaining intangible assets may be such that significant adjustments to our consolidated financial statements would be required. 

 

We May Need External Financing In Order To Fund Our Operations And Plans For Sales Growth. While we continue to take actions to reduce cash used in operations, there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash to fund our future operations and growth strategies. As we did in fiscal 2004, we may need to obtain external financing in the future. We do not have any material commitments from others to provide additional financing in the future and there can be no assurance that any such additional financing will be available if needed; or, if available, will be on terms acceptable to us. In the event such needed financing is not obtained, our operations will be materially adversely affected and we could be forced to cease or substantially reduce operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to shareholders, and debt financings, if available, may involve substantial restrictive covenants or require the pledging of substantial of our assets. 

 

Because Of Our Dependence On A Few Key Customers, The Loss of Any Key Customer Could Cause A Significant Decline in Our Revenues. In fiscal 2004 and 2003, Intel Corporation accounted for 16% and 10% of our net revenue, respectively. In fiscal 2002, Finisar Corp. accounted for 24% of our net revenue. In fiscal 2004 we had two other customers that accounted for more than 5% of our net revenue but less than 10%. Part of our strategy in fiscal 2004 has been to gain key customer relationships of more significance and impact to generate higher revenues at lower costs. This strategy has met with some success and therefore we believe that that our operating results will continue to be notably dependant on sales to a relatively small number of significant customers. The loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in sales to any such customers, would adversely affect our revenues. 

 

Order Cancellations And Extensions Of Product Shipment Dates By Customers Can Hinder Our Ability To Achieve Profitability. Our sales are generally made pursuant to purchase orders that are subject to cancellation, modification or rescheduling without significant penalties to our customers. In recent years, we have experienced material order cancellations and significant extensions of product shipment dates by some of our customers. If current customers stop placing orders, or unexpectedly reduce orders, we may not be able to replace these orders with orders from new customers and our ability to achieve profitability will be adversely affected. The majority of our current customers do not have any minimum purchase obligations, and they may stop placing orders with us at any time, regardless of any forecast they may have previously provided. 

 

Our New Market Penetration Efforts Are At An Early Stage Of Development And May Not Prove Successful. Our efforts to diversify our sales to additional optical applications in multiple industries are still in an early phase and our current line of products have not generated sufficient revenues to sustain our operations. While we have fiscal 2004’s evidence of sales gains to cause us to believe our existing products are commercially viable, we anticipate the need to continue to engage in vigorous sales and marketing activities, including education, in order to generate market demand. Further, market feedback may require us to further refine these products. Development of additional product lines will require significant further development, testing and marketing prior to commercialization. There can be no assurance that any proposed products will be successfully developed, demonstrate desirable optical performance, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs or be successfully marketed. 

 

Some of Our Products Have Not Been Demonstrated To Be Commercially Successful. Although our optical lens products have been accepted commercially, the benefits of the GRADIUM glass line are not widely known 

 

14 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
and must be introduced as we can afford in markets that we believe would benefit from the performance characteristics of GRADIUM. Many prospective customers will need to make substantial expenditures in order to redesign products to incorporate our GRADIUM lenses. There can be no assurances that potential customers will view the benefits of our products as sufficient to warrant such design expenditures. 

 

Our collimator products have not yet achieved broad commercial acceptance; our isolator production capability and sales, while encouraging at this point, are only four years old; and some of our molded aspheres applications are new. There can be no assurance that any of these will be commercially viable products or produce significant revenues. Further, there is no assurance that any products currently existing or to be developed in the future will attain sufficient market acceptance to generate significant additional revenues that are necessary for our success. We must also satisfy industry-standard Telcordia testing on telecommunication products to meet customer requirements, as well as satisfy prospective customers that we will be able to meet their demand for quantities of products, since we may be the sole supplier and licensor. We do not have lengthy experience as a manufacturer for all our product lines and have limited financial resources. We may be unable to accomplish any one or more of the foregoing to the extent necessary to develop commercially successful market acceptance of our products. 

 

Our Relatively Short Operating History May Hinder Our Ability to Accurately Forecast Revenues and Expenses. Although almost 20 years old, LightPath has only generated significant revenues (higher than $5 million per year) since fiscal 2000. Through fiscal 1996, our primary activities were basic research and development of glass material properties. Because of this short and highly variable operating experience and the turnover in management in the last two years, we have in the past and may in the future be unable to accurately forecast our revenues from sales of our products, and we have limited meaningful historical financial data upon which to plan future operating expenses. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, and we may not be able to quickly reduce spending if our revenue is lower than we project. New product introductions will also result in increased operating expenses in advance of generating revenues, if any. Therefore, net losses in a given quarter could be greater than expected. Failure to accurately forecast our revenues and future operating expenses could cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, including cash flows, and may result in further volatility of or a decline in our stock price. 

 

If We Are Unable To Develop And Successfully Introduce New And Enhanced Products That Meet The Needs Of Our Customers, Our Business May Fail. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate our customers’ needs and develop products that address those needs. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require that we effectively transfer production processes from new product development to manufacturing and coordinate our efforts with the efforts of our suppliers to rapidly achieve efficient volume production. If we fail to effectively transfer production processes, develop product enhancements or introduce new products that meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our net revenues may decline. 

 

Our Sales, Gross Margins, And Market Share May Be Reduced Because of Increased Competition. Competition in optical markets in which we compete is intense. Many of our competitors are large public companies that have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, these competitors are able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, the market capitalization and cash reserves of several of our competitors are much larger than ours, and, as a result, these competitors are much better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines. Such acquisitions could give our competitors further advantages. For example, if our competitors acquire any of our significant customers, these customers may reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Alternatively, some of our competitors may spin-out new companies in the optical component and module market. These companies may compete more aggressively than their former parent companies due to their greater dependence on our markets. In addition, many of our potential competitors have significantly more established sales and customer support organizations, much greater name recognition, more extensive customer bases, more developed distribution channels and broader product offerings than we have. These companies can 

 

15 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
leverage their customer bases and broader product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. We expect to encounter potential customers that, due to existing relationships with our competitors, are committed to the products offered by these competitors. As a result of the foregoing factors, we expect that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share. 

 

We compete with manufacturers of conventional spherical lens products and aspherical lens products, producers of optical quality glass and other developers of gradient lens technology as well as telecom product manufacturers. In both the optical lens and communications markets, we are competing against, among others, established international companies, especially in Asia. Many of these companies also are primary customers for optical and communication components, and therefore have significant control over certain markets for our products. We are also aware of other companies that are attempting to develop radial gradient lens technology. There may also be others of which we are not aware that are attempting to develop axial gradient lens technology similar to our technology. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop technologies that are superior to or more commercially acceptable than our existing and planned technologies and products. 

 

We Anticipate Further Reductions in the Average Selling Prices Of Our Products and Therefore Must Increase Our Sales Volumes, Reduce Our Costs and/or Introduce Higher Margin Products To Reach And Maintain Financial Stability. We have experienced decreases in the average selling prices of some of our products over the last three years, including most of our passive component products. We anticipate that as products in the optical component and module market become more commodity-like, the average selling prices of our products will decrease in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us, our competitors or other factors. If we are unable to offset this anticipated decrease in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or product mix, our net revenues and gross margins will decline. In addition, to maintain or improve our gross margins, we must continue to reduce the manufacturing cost of our products, and we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements with higher margins. If we cannot maintain or improve our gross margins, our financial position may be harmed and our stock price may decline. 

 

Because Of Our Limited Product Offerings, Our Ability To Generate Additional Revenues May Be Adversely Affected. We derive a substantial portion of our net revenues from a limited number of products. We expect that net revenues from a limited number of products will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenues. Demand for these and other optical market products had declined materially in recent years; however, demand has improved during fiscal 2004. Continued and expanding market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. We cannot provide assure that, once the communication industry and general economic conditions improve, our current or new products will achieve market acceptance at the rate at which we expect, or at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 

 

If We Don’t Expand Our Sales and New Product Development Organization Our Revenues May Not Increase. The sale of our products requires long and involved efforts targeted at several key departments within our prospective customers’ organizations. Sales of our products require the prolonged efforts of executive personnel and specialized systems and applications engineers working together with a small number of dedicated salespersons. Currently, our sales and new product development organizations are limited. While we had some success increasing sales in fiscal 2004 with little growth in our sales staff, we believe we will need to increase our sales and new product development forces in order to further increase market awareness and sales of our products. There is competition in our industry for qualified individuals and we might not be able to hire the kind and number of sales personnel and applications engineers we need. If we are unable to expand our sales and new product development organizations, we may not be able to increase market awareness or sales of our products, which would prevent us from increasing our revenues. 

 

If We Are Unable to Make Sales In A Fragmented Market Our Revenues May Not Increase. The markets for optical lenses and laser components are highly fragmented. Consequently, we will need to identify and 

 

16 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
successfully target particular market segments in which we believe we will have the most success. These efforts will require a substantial, but unknown, amount of effort and resources. The fragmented nature of the optical products market may impede our ability to achieve commercial acceptance for our products. In addition, our success will depend in great part on our ability to develop and implement a successful marketing and sales program. There can be no assurance that any marketing and sales efforts undertaken by us will be successful or will result in any significant product sales. 

 

Our Products Have Long And Variable Sales Cycles Which Reduce Our Ability to Accurately Forecast Revenues. The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict because of the length and variability of the sales and implementation cycles for our products. We do not recognize revenue until a product has been shipped to a customer, all significant vendor obligations have been performed and collection is considered probable. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products and our manufacturing process. This customer evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy initial sales cycle (often one year or longer). While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and new product development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. We cannot predict the length of these sales and development cycles. These long sales cycles, coupled with the uncertain effects of the slowdown and expected recovery in the U.S. economy, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which could continue to cause volatility in our stock price. 

 

Current And Pending Litigation May Adversely Impact Operating Results. On May 2, 2000, the Company commenced a class action lawsuit in the Chancery Court of Delaware, New Castle County (the “Delaware Action”). In that action, the Company sought a declaratory judgment with respect to (i) the Company’s right to redeem its Class E Common Stock on March 31, 2001 for $.0001 per share, (ii) the right of the holders of Class E Common Stock to vote at the Annual Meeting to be held on October 6, 2000, and (iii) for certification of the holders of Class E Common Stock as a class and the named defendants as its representatives. The Delaware Action was settled in fiscal 2002 with the final settlement agreement requiring the Company to pay $0.40 per share to each Class E holder. The settlement agreement permitted Class E shareholders to elect not to participate in the settlement and thus was not binding on any Class E shareholders who so elected. Approximately 12% of the former Class E shareholders elected not to participate in the settlement (see Texas Action described below). Since the beginning of fiscal 2003, the Company distributed approximately $1.4 million of the $1.5 million estimated total cost arising under the settlement agreement. 

 

On or about June 9, 2000, a small group of holders of Class E Common Stock commenced an action in a state court in Texas (the “Texas Action”), asserting causes of action of securities fraud, common law fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, civil conspiracy, negligent misrepresentation and fraudulent inducement. Plaintiffs in the Texas Action made various allegations regarding the circumstances surrounding the issuance of the Class E Common Stock and alleged misrepresentations by the company in connection therewith, and sought damages and equitable relief based upon those allegations. Management believes the allegations underlying the Texas Action are without merit. During the first quarter of fiscal 2003, the Texas court granted the Company’s motion for Summary Judgment. The plaintiffs sought reconsideration of the ruling, however, on October 24, 2002, the Texas court denied their motion. On February 14, 2003, the Plaintiffs requested that the Texas Supreme Court review the appellate court’s decision. On June 26, 2003, the Texas Supreme Court dismissed the Plaintiffs’ petition for review for want of jurisdiction. We are unable to determine at present whether the Plaintiffs intend to further challenge or appeal the Texas Supreme Court’s denial of their petition for review. On July 22, 2002, the Company and a director filed a motion for summary judgment as to all of the Plaintiff’s claims which was granted on October 10, 2002, and has been made final by the trial court on March 1, 2004. On March 15, 2004, the Plaintiffs filed an amended notice of appeal of final judgment as to the Company and a co-defendant. 

 

The Company is also involved in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business. After taking into consideration legal counsel’s evaluation of such actions, management is of the opinion that their outcome will not have a significant effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

 

17 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
The Company may from time to time become involved in other lawsuits and legal proceedings. Litigation is expensive and is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in any such matters could adversely impact our operating results or financial condition. Additionally, any litigation to which we are subject could also require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. 

 

Sales, Political, Currency And Other Risks Associated With Our International Sales Could Negatively Impact Our Business. For fiscal 2004, approximately 17% of our net revenues were from sales to international customers. Our international sales will be limited if we cannot establish and/or maintain relationships with international distributors, establish foreign operations, expand international sales, and develop relationships with international service providers. Additionally, our international sales may be adversely affected if international economies weaken. We are subject to risks including the following: 

 

  • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods;  

 

  • the impact of recessions or slow growth in economies outside the United States, particularly Europe;  

 

  • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;  

 

  • unexpected changes in foreign demand in response to exchange rate fluctuations;  

 

  • certification requirements;  

 

  • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;  

 

  • potentially adverse tax consequences; and  

 

  • political and economic instability.  

 

While we expect our international revenues to be denominated predominantly in U.S. dollars, in the future a portion of our international revenues and expenses may be denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, we could experience the risks of fluctuating currencies and corresponding exchange rates. 

 

We also source certain raw materials from outside the United States. Some of those materials, priced in non-dollar currencies, have risen in price due to a decline of the U.S. dollar against non-dollar-pegged currencies, especially the Euro, since 2002. This lowers our margins and reduces our ability to reach positive cash flow and profitability. 

 

Our Business Has Been Subject To Fluctuations in Quarterly Results And Continued Fluctuations Could Negatively Impact Our Stock Price. The market price of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results. Revenues and results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. For example, as a result of revenues associated with any of our key customers, any cancellation of orders from a key customer could result in significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual results. Quarterly results have also been and may continue to be affected by asset write-downs associated with communications market weakness, our recent headquarters and plant consolidations and other matters, including negative cash flow. 

 

We May Issue Additional Securities With Rights Superior To Those Of The Common Stock, Which Could Materially Limit The Ownership Rights Of Investors. We may offer additional debt or equity securities in private and/or public offerings in order to raise working capital as we did in fiscal 2004. The board of directors has the right to determine the terms and rights of any debt securities and preferred stock without obtaining the approval of the stockholders. It is possible that any debt securities or preferred stock that we sell would have terms and rights superior to those of the common stock and may be convertible into common stock. Any sale of securities could adversely affect the interests or voting rights of the holders of common stock, result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have no present plans to issue any common stock, convertible preferred stock or any other preferred stock but are seeking shareholder approval to do so up to 1.2 million shares of our Common Stock Class A without further specific shareholder 

 

18 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
approval thereafter, subject to possible Nasdaq requirements and limitations which may be more restrictive than our stockholders approval, if obtained. 

 

Our Stock Price Has Been, And May Continue To Be, Subject To Large Price Swings Which We Are Not Able To Control. Broad market fluctuations or fluctuations in our operations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. The market for our Common Stock is volatile, the bid-ask spread is usually large and the trading volume and activity is low and sporadic. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and will continue to be subject to: 

 

  • volatility in the trading markets generally and in our particular market segment;  

 

  • limited trading of our common stock;  

 

  • significant fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results;  

 

  • announcements regarding our business or the business of our customers or competitors;  

 

  • changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services;  

 

  • changes in product mix;  

 

  • changes in revenue and revenue growth rates; and  

 

  • other events or factors.  

 

Statements of or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, the stock market as a whole, as well as our particular market segment, have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market price for the securities of many companies and which often have appeared unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Although our shares are publicly traded on Nasdaq SmallCap Market, the trading market for our shares can be limited. During the three months ended July 30, 2004, Nasdaq-reported trading volume for our shares averaged 7,081 shares per trading day. We cannot forecast or control any material increase in the trading volume for our shares. A lack of an active trading market for our shares could negatively impact stockholders’ ability to sell their shares when they desire and the price that they might obtain. 

 

The Fact That We Do Not Expect To Pay Dividends May Lead To A Decreased Price For Our Stock. Our Board has never declared a dividend on our Common Stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends on the Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Due to U.S. tax law changes in 2003, dividends may be more valuable on an after-tax basis as a component of investment return, potentially diminishing the appeal of holding our Common Stock. It is anticipated that our earnings, if any, will be reinvested in sales growth activities for our business. 

 

Our Management And Principal Shareholders Control A Substantial Amount Of Our Stock And May, Therefore, Influence Our Affairs. If our management and a few principal shareholders act in concert, disposition of matters submitted to shareholders or the election of the entire Board of Directors may be hindered. We estimate that management, including directors, and our principal shareholders (shareholders owning more than 5% of our Common Stock) beneficially owned approximately 22% of the aggregate Common Stock outstanding as of August 23, 2004. 

 

Our Charter Documents And Delaware Law May Inhibit A Takeover. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that will inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our Common Stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and certain other agreements contain certain provisions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include, but are not limited to: 

 

  • staggered-terms of service for our Board of Directors,  

 

  • the authorization of the Board of Directors to issue shares of undesignated preferred stock in one or more series without the specific approval of the stockholders,  

 

19 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
  • the fact that in 1998 we adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend distribution of a right to purchase one share of Series D Participating Preferred Stock for each outstanding share of Class A common stock. The description and terms of such rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement dated as of May 1, 1998 between LightPath and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent. A copy of the Rights Agreement and related documents were previously filed as an Exhibit to the Company’s filings with the SEC.  

 

  • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings, and  

 

  • the fact that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by our Chairman, President or upon the request of a majority of the Board of Directors.  

 

All of these provisions, as well as the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (to which we are subject), could impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. 

 

Outstanding Warrants, Stock Options and Restricted Stock Agreements May Inhibit Our Ability To Accomplish Future Financings and Adversely Affect Our Stock Price. The existence of our outstanding warrants, options and restricted stock and the potential for sales of significant amounts of previously unregistered shares of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional financing or the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. As of August 23, 2004 there were issued and outstanding: 

 

  • 3,375,770 shares of our Common Stock, including unvested restricted stock grants for 86,645 shares of Common Stock;  

 

  • warrants issued in private placement and other transactions pursuant to which 246,568 shares of Common Stock are issuable, at an weighted average exercise price of approximately $10.29 per share; and  

 

  • outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 107,686 shares of Common Stock, with an average exercise price of approximately $76.98 per share.  

 

In addition, 16,377 shares of Common Stock were reserved as of August 23, 2004 for issuance pursuant to future grants to be made under our Amended and Restated Omnibus Incentive Plan. 

 

For the life of such options and warrants, the holders will have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the price of the underlying common stock, with a resulting dilution in the interest of other holders of common stock upon exercise or conversion. Further, the option and warrant holders can be expected to exercise their options and warrants at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain additional capital by an offering of our unissued common stock on terms more favorable than those originally provided by such options or warrants. Of the total number of shares of Common Stock currently issued and outstanding, we estimate that there are likely a small number, if any, of unregistered shares of Common Stock outstanding, and only those which remain unvested under restricted stock grants may not be freely traded or may be otherwise restricted from trading under certain volume and other restrictions set forth in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. 

 

We Have Agreed To Certain Limitations Upon Potential Liability Of Our Directors, Which Could Prevent Recovery Of Monetary Damages. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that directors will not be personally liable for monetary damages to the Company or its shareholders for a breach of fiduciary duty as a director, subject to limited exceptions. Although such limitation of liability does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission, the presence of these provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation could prevent the recovery of monetary damages by the Company or its shareholders. 

 

20 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
We May Have Difficulty Obtaining Director And Officer Liability Insurance In Acceptable Amounts For Acceptable Rates. We carry insurance protecting our officers and directors and us against claims relating to the conduct of our business. This insurance covers the costs incurred by companies and their management to defend against and resolve claims relating to management conduct and results of operations, such as securities class action claims. These claims are extremely expensive to defend against and resolve; therefore, we purchase and maintain insurance to cover some of these costs. We pay significant premiums to acquire and maintain this insurance, which is provided by third-party insurers, and we agree to underwrite a portion of such exposures under the terms of these insurance coverages. In recent years the premiums we have paid for this insurance have increased substantially. During fiscal 2004 we have been able to renew our D&O insurance for a reduction in premium over the prior year. We cannot assure that, in the future, we will be able to obtain what we believe to be sufficient director and officer liability insurance coverage at acceptable rates and with acceptable deductibles and other limitations. Further, due to our available financial resources at the time the current coverage expires (February 2005), we may be unable to pay for or we may choose not to seek as much coverage as we believe to be sufficient. Failure or inability to obtain such insurance, or the election to accept less than we believe sufficient or none at all, could materially harm our financial condition in the event that we are required to defend against and resolve any future securities class actions or other claims made against us or our management arising from the conduct of our operations. Further, obtaining such insurance in an inadequate amount or obtaining none at all may impair our future ability to retain and recruit qualified officers and directors. 

 

Business Interruptions Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We manufacture all of our products at a single manufacturing facility in Orlando, Florida, and our revenues are dependent upon the continued operation of this facility. This facility is subject to a lease that expires in 2008 unless renewed pursuant to terms mutually agreeable to our landlord and us. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, hurricane winds and rain, electric power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan, and we do not have a backup facility or contractual arrangements with any other manufacturers in the event of a casualty to or destruction of the facility or if the facility ceases to be available to us for any other reason. If we are required to rebuild or relocate our manufacturing facility, a substantial investment in improvements and equipment would be necessary. We carry only a limited amount of business interruption insurance, which may not sufficiently compensate us for losses that may occur. Our facilities may be subject to electrical blackouts as a consequence of a shortage of available electrical power. We currently do not have backup generators or alternate sources of power in the event of a blackout. If blackouts interrupt our power supply, we would be temporarily unable to continue operations at our facility. Any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of blackouts, rebuilding, relocation or other business interruptions, including the aforementioned, could result in a significant delay or reduction in manufacturing and production capabilities, impair our reputation, harm our ability to retain existing customers and to obtain new customers, and could result in reduced sales, lost revenue, and/or loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and the results of operations. 

 

As an example of this type of risk, the Company experienced an electric power outage at its facility caused by a storm named “Hurricane Charley” from the evening of August 13, 2004 to the morning of August 17, 2004. During this period, the Company was without the use of its production capacity and lost approximately six shifts of production. The Company believes it will be able to make up this loss of production time during the course of the remaining six weeks of the fiscal quarter. 

 

Our Business Depends, In Part, Upon The Efforts Of Third Parties, Which We Cannot Control. Part of our strategy for the development and commercialization of certain products entails entering into various arrangements with corporate partners, OEMs, licensees and others in order to generate product sales, license fees, royalties and other funds adequate for product development or to enhance commercial prospects. We may also rely on our collaborative partners to conduct research efforts, product testing and to manufacture and market certain of our products. Although we believe that parties to any such arrangements would have an economic motivation to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities may not be within our control. There can also be no assurance that we will be 

 

21 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
successful in establishing any such collaborative arrangements or that, if established, the parties to such arrangements will assist us in commercializing products. We have a non-exclusive agreement with a catalog company to distribute certain of our products. We have agreements with nine foreign and one domestic distributor to create markets for GRADIUM and our other products in their respective countries or market segments. There can be no assurance, however, that these parties, or any future partners, will perform their obligations as expected or that any revenue will be derived from such arrangements. 

 

Future Acquisitions To Add To Our Product, Process Or Management Capabilities May Fail To Produce The Desired Benefits and Will Likely Be Dilutive to Existing Shareholders. We anticipate that in the future, as part of our business strategy, we may make strategic acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. In the event of any such future acquisitions, we could: 

 

  • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership;  

 

  • incur debt;  

 

  • assume liabilities; or  

 

  • incur expenses related to in-process research and development and intangible assets.  

 

Any future acquisitions also could involve numerous risks, including: 

 

  • problems associated with combining the acquired operations, technologies or products;  

 

  • unanticipated costs or liabilities;  

 

  • diversion of management’s attention from our existing business;  

 

  • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;  

 

  • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and  

 

  • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired entities.  

 

We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, which may harm our business. 

 

The Loss Of, Or Our Inability To Hire, Key Personnel Would Reduce Our Ability To Manage Our Business Effectively. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive and non-executive officers and other key engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel. Our inability to retain or attract key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operations depend, to a great extent, upon the efforts of our management. We also depend upon our ability to attract additional members to our operations teams to support our strategy. The loss of any of these key employees would adversely affect our business. We had 88 full-time equivalent employees on July 30, 2004. We expect to continue to hire selectively in the manufacturing, engineering, sales and marketing and administrative functions to the extent consistent with our business levels. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs, which could adversely impact our ability to develop and sell our products. 

 

We Rely On The Efforts Of Our Chief Executive Officer, And The Loss Of His Services Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business. Our success will be largely dependent upon the personal efforts and abilities of Kenneth Brizel, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Brizel is not bound by an employment agreement. If Mr. Brizel ends his relationship with the company before a qualified replacement is found, then our business, prospects and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

 

22 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
B. Risks Related To Manufacturing Our Products 

 

If We Do Not Accurately Project Demand For Our Products, We Will Have Excess Manufacturing Capacity Or Insufficient Manufacturing Capacity Which Can Adversely Affect Our Financial Results. We currently manufacture all of our products in our facilities located in Orlando, Florida. While demand for our products seems to have improved in fiscal 2004, we intend to operate at a “right-sized” production level during fiscal 2005 while retaining flexibility to meet demand if it should increase in the near future. We will accomplish this, in part, by maintaining some of our production workforce as temporary employees or contractors. 

 

Our Failure To Accurately Forecast Material Requirements Could Cause Us To Incur Additional Costs, Have Excess Inventories Or Have Insufficient Materials To Build Our Products. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our materials requirements. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary materials. Lead times for materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for the materials at a given time. If we overestimate our material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, in order to avoid excess material inventories we may incur cancellation charges associated with modifying existing purchase orders with our vendors. 

 

If We Do Not Achieve Acceptable Manufacturing Yields Or Sufficient Product Reliability, Our Ability To Ship Products To Our Customers Could Be Delayed. The manufacture of our products involves complex and precise processes. Our manufacturing costs for several products are relatively fixed, and, thus, manufacturing yields are critical to our results of operations. Changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our suppliers, or the use of defective materials, could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields and product reliability. In addition, we may experience manufacturing delays and reduced manufacturing yields upon introducing new products to our manufacturing lines. We may experience lower than targeted product yields in the future which could adversely affect our operating results. 

 

If Our Customers Do Not Qualify Our Manufacturing Lines For Volume Shipments, Our Operating Results Could Suffer. Generally, customers do not purchase our products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. Customers may require that we be registered under international quality standards, such as the ISO 9000 series. This customer qualification process determines whether our manufacturing lines meet the customers’ quality, performance and reliability standards. If there are delays in qualification of our products, our customers may drop the product from a long-term supply program, which would result in significant lost revenue opportunity over the term of that program. 

 

We Depend On Single Or Limited Source Suppliers For Some Of The Key Materials In Our Products, Which Makes Us Susceptible To Supply Shortages Or Price Fluctuations. We currently purchase several key materials used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited source suppliers. We may fail to obtain required materials in a timely manner in the future, or could experience further delays from evaluating and testing the products of these potential alternative suppliers. The decline in demand in the telecommunications equipment industry may have adversely impacted the financial condition of certain of our suppliers, some of whom have limited financial resources. We have in the past, and may in the future, be required to provide advance payments in order to secure key materials from financially limited suppliers. Financial or other difficulties faced by these suppliers could limit the availability of key components or materials. Additionally, financial difficulties could impair our ability to recover advances made to these suppliers. In some cases, suppliers may limit, restrict or cease their sales to us due to our financial status as evidenced by our filings as a public company. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these materials, or the inability to obtain these materials from 

 

23 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders, negatively affecting our business. 

 

Our Products May Contain Unknown Defects Which Would Adversely Affect Our Business. Some of our products are designed to be deployed in large and complex optical networks. Because of the nature of these products, they can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in networks for long periods of time. Our fiber optic products may contain undetected defects when first introduced or as new versions are released, and our customers may discover defects in our products only after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, our products often are combined with products from other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: 

 

  • loss of customers;  

 

  • damage to our brand reputation;  

 

  • failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance;  

 

  • diversion of development and engineering resources; and  

 

  • legal actions by our customers or third parties.  

 

The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could cause our net revenues to decline or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. 

 

We Face Product Liability Risks Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The sale of our optical products involve the inherent risk of product liability claims by others. We do not currently maintain product liability insurance coverage. Product liability insurance is expensive, subject to various coverage exclusions and may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us if we decide to procure such insurance in the future. Moreover, the amount and scope of any coverage may be inadequate to protect us in the event that a product liability claim is successfully asserted. Should any such claim be asserted and successfully litigated by an adverse party, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial position and results of operations. 

 

C. Risks Related To Our Intellectual Property 

 

If We Are Unable To Protect And Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights, We May Be Unable To Compete Effectively. We believe that our patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position, and we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Although we have devoted substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our intellectual property rights, the actions taken by us may be inadequate to prevent imitation or improper use of our products by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their intellectual property rights by us. 

 

In addition, we cannot assure that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents that we may be issued will protect our intellectual property or that third parties will not challenge any issued patents. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We also rely on confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with our employees, consultants and corporate partners to protect our proprietary rights, but we cannot assure the compliance by such parties with their confidentiality obligations, which could be very time consuming and expensive to enforce. 

 

It may be necessary to litigate to enforce our patents, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation can be time consuming, distracting to management, expensive and difficult to predict. Our failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operation. 

 

24 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
We Do Not Have Patent Protection For Our Formulas And Processes, And A Loss Of Ownership Of Any Of Our Formulas And Processes Would Negatively Impact Our Business. We believe that we own our formulas and processes. However, we have not sought, and do not intend to seek, patent protection for all of our formulas and processes. Instead, we rely on the complexity of our formulas and processes, trade secrecy laws, and employee confidentiality agreements. However, we cannot assure you that other companies will not acquire our confidential information or trade secrets or will not independently develop equivalent or superior products or technology and obtain patent or similar rights. Although we believe that our formulas and processes have been independently developed and do not infringe the patents or rights of others, a variety of components of our processes could infringe existing or future patents, in which event we may be required to modify our processes or obtain a license. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions and the failure to do either of the foregoing would negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

 

We May Become Involved In Intellectual Property Disputes And Litigation Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We anticipate, based on the size and sophistication of our competitors and the history of rapid technological advances in our industry, that several competitors may have patent applications in progress in the United States or in foreign countries that, if issued, could relate to products similar to ours. If such patents were to be issued, the patent holders or licensees may assert infringement claims against us or claim that we have violated other intellectual property rights. These claims and any resulting lawsuits, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. The lawsuits, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation could also force us to do one or more of the following, any of which could harm our business: 

 

  • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the disputed intellectual property;  

 

  • obtain from third parties a license to sell or use the disputed technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or  

 

  • redesign our products that use the disputed intellectual property.  

 

Necessary Licenses Of Third-Party Technology May Not Be Available To Us Or May Be Very Expensive. From time to time we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. We can provide no assurance that third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm our ability to manufacture and sell our products. 

 

On February 11, 2004, the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc. (“UF”) notified us that we were in default under the terms of the Amended and Restated License Agreement (“UF Agreement”) for failure to pay certain back royalties and in April 2004 notified us that they had terminated the UF Agreement. UF claims that we owe $83,000 in unpaid royalties. While we dispute the amount owed and have been in discussion with UF about the matter, we do not believe that the termination of the UF Agreement has materially adversely affected our business since the licensed technology had never generated annual sales in excess of 3% of our total revenues from a single customer who had previously notified us that they were ceasing purchase of the product. The Company and UF are in continued discussions about this matter. 

 
