ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. In
this Form 10-K, "we," "us," and "our" each refers to Microchip Technology
Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 2355
West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number
is (480) 786-7200. Our website address is microchip.com. The information on our
website is NOT incorporated into this Form 10-K.

     We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our
customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our product
portfolio comprises microcontrollers; application-specific standard products,
referred to as ASSPs; and related mixed-signal and memory products. We market
our products to the consumer, automotive, office automation, communications and
industrial markets. We provide highly cost-effective embedded control and
believe that our PIC(R) product family is a price/performance leader in the
worldwide microcontroller market. Our embedded control products also offer the
advantages of small size, low voltage operation and ease of development,
enabling timely and cost-effective product integration by our customers. Our
ASSP products include a variety of specialized integrated circuits, including
our family of KEELOQ(R) security products for wireless communications. Our
mixed-signal products consist of a variety of standalone analog devices used
primarily in embedded control systems to convert or buffer input and output
signals to or from a microcontroller. And, our memory products are primarily
comprised of serial EEPROMs which are used primarily to provide non-volatile
memory storage in embedded control systems.

     Risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operating results are
set forth throughout the following discussion of our business. Additional risk
factors that may affect our future operating results are discussed in "Item 7 -
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operation," at page 13.

     THIS FORM 10-K CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, INCLUDING STATEMENTS REGARDING OUR STRATEGY, FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE AND REVENUE SOURCES. OUR ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM
THE RESULTS ANTICIPATED IN THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF
CERTAIN FACTORS INCLUDING THOSE SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,"
BEGINNING AT PAGE 13 , AND ELSEWHERE IN THIS FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH WE BELIEVE THAT
THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE REASONABLE, WE
CANNOT GUARANTEE FUTURE RESULTS, LEVELS OF ACTIVITY, PERFORMANCE OR
ACHIEVEMENTS. YOU SHOULD NOT PLACE UNDUE RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Competitive pressures require manufacturers to expand product functionality
and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these
requirements, manufacturers use integrated circuit-based embedded control
systems that provide an integrated solution for application-specific control
requirements. Embedded control systems enable manufacturers to differentiate
their products, replace less efficient electromechanical control devices, add
product functionality and significantly reduce product costs. In addition,
embedded control systems facilitate the emergence of complete new classes of
products. Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as
the principal active, and sometimes sole, component.

     A microcontroller is a self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a
central processing unit, non-volatile program memory, random access memory for
data storage and various input/output capabilities. In addition to the
microcontroller, a complete embedded control system incorporates
application-specific software and may include specialized peripheral device
controllers and external non-volatile memory components, such as EEPROMs to
store additional program software.
Embedded control systems enable our customers to:

     *    differentiate their products
     *    replace less efficient electromechanical control devices
     *    add product functionality, and
     *    significantly reduce product cost.

                                       1
<PAGE>
Embedded control solutions have been incorporated into thousands of products and
subassemblies in a wide variety of markets worldwide, including:

     *    automotive air bag systems
     *    remote control devices
     *    handheld tools
     *    appliances
     *    portable computers
     *    cordless and cellular telephones
     *    motor controls, and
     *    security systems.

     The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for
microcontrollers one of the largest segments of the semiconductor market.
Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit architectures.
Although 4-bit microcontrollers are relatively inexpensive, typically costing
under $1.00 each, they generally lack the minimum performance and features
required by today's design engineers for product differentiation and are
typically used only to produce basic functionality in products. While 16- and
32-bit architectures provide very high performance, they are prohibitively
expensive for most high-volume embedded control applications, typically costing
more than $4.00 each. As a result, manufacturers of competitive, high-volume
products have increasingly found 8-bit microcontrollers, that typically cost
$1.00 to $8.00 each, to be the most cost-effective embedded control solution.
For example, a typical new automobile may include one 32-bit microcontroller for
engine control, three 16-bit microcontrollers for transmission control, audio
systems and anti-lock braking, and up to 50 8-bit microcontrollers to provide
other embedded control functions, such as door locking, automatic windows, sun
roof, adjustable seats, electric mirrors, air bags, fuel pump, speedometer, and
the security and climate control systems.

     Most microcontrollers available today are ROM-based and must be programmed
by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing, resulting in six-to-20 week
lead times for delivery of such microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product
introduction, these long lead times can result in potential inventory
obsolescence and factory shutdowns when changes to the firmware are required. To
address time-to-market constraints, some suppliers have made EPROM, EEPROM, or
Flash Memory-based programmable microcontrollers available for prototyping and
preproduction runs. However, these microcontrollers have been relatively
expensive, and manufacturers have still been required to send program code to
the semiconductor factory for ROM programming as product changes are made. As a
result, the long lead times for production volume microcontrollers have not been
significantly reduced by traditional approaches.

OUR PRODUCTS

     Our strategic focus is on embedded control products, including
microcontrollers, ASSPs, related mixed-signal and memory products, and
application development systems.

     MICROCONTROLLERS

     We offer a broad family of microcontroller products featuring a unique,
proprietary architecture marketed under the PIC(R) brand name. We have shipped
more than one billion PIC(R) microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their
introduction in 1990. Our PIC(R) products are designed for applications
requiring high performance and low cost. They feature a variety of memory
configurations, low voltage and power, small footprint and ease of use. We
believe this product family is currently a price/performance leader in the
overall microcontroller marketplace. Our performance results from an exclusive
product architecture which features dual data and instruction pathways, referred
to as a Harvard dual-bus architecture; a reduced instruction set, referred to as
RISC; and variable length instructions; all of which provide significant speed
advantages over the alternative single-bus, CISC architectures. Prices for our
microcontroller products currently range from approximately $0.49 to $10.00 per
unit.

     Our original market focus was in the low-cost segment of the 8-bit
microcontroller marketplace. With our baseline products, we built our current
market position as the leading worldwide supplier of field programmable
microcontrollers. Over the past five years, we have introduced more than 120 new
microcontrollers targeted at the baseline, mid-range and high-end segments of
the traditional 8-bit microcontroller marketplace. Additionally, with our
scalable product architecture, we have successfully targeted both the lower end
of the 16-bit microcontroller market as well as the higher end of the large
4-bit microcontroller marketplace, significantly enlarging our addressable
market. We believe that all of the additional market segments we have entered
represent significant opportunities for future sales growth.

                                       2
<PAGE>
     We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology
to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the
development and production of our PIC(R) family of microcontroller products. Our
extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our advanced, low cost user
programmability feature by incorporating non-volatile memory, such as EPROM,
EEPROM and Flash Memory, into the microcontroller in addition to masked ROM
program memory being included into the microcontroller.

     DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS

     We offer a comprehensive set of low cost and easy-to-learn application
development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily
program a PIC(R) microcontroller for specific applications and are a key factor
for obtaining design wins. Our family of development tools operates in the
standard Windows(R) environment on standard PC hardware. Entry-level systems,
which include an assembler and programmer hardware, are priced at less than
$200. A fully configured system, which also provides in-circuit emulation
hardware, performance simulators and software debuggers, is priced at
approximately $2,000. Customers moving from entry-level designs to those
requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve their investment in software
tools as they migrate to future PIC(R) devices since all the product families
are assembly- and C- language compatible.

     Many independent companies also develop and market application development
tools and systems that support our standard microcontroller product
architecture. We believe that familiarity with and adoption of our, and
third-party, development systems by an increasing number of product designers
will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded control
products. These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of
application-specific products from our standard microcontrollers. Currently,
there are more than 120 third-party tool suppliers worldwide whose products
support the Company's proprietary microcontroller architecture.

     ASSPS

     Our application-specific standard products, referred to as ASSPs, are
specialized products designed to perform specific end-user applications as
opposed to our other products which are more general purpose in nature. Our ASSP
device families currently include the KEELOQ(R) family of secure data
transmission products, as well as other specialized integrated circuit devices.
KEELOQ(R) security products are designed for low cost, secure, uni-directional
communications and verification purposes. Applications include:

     *    automotive remote keyless entry systems
     *    automotive immobilizer systems
     *    automatic garage and gate openers, and
     *    smart cards.

     MIXED-SIGNAL PRODUCTS

     Our mixed-signal products consist of a growing portfolio of standalone
analog devices that are used primarily in embedded control systems to convert or
buffer input and output signals to or from a microcontroller. Our standalone
analog product family was introduced to the market at the beginning of fiscal
year 2000. As of the end of fiscal 2000, our mixed-signal portfolio consists of
more than 15 standalone analog products, and those devices are being shipped to
more than 1,000 end customers.

     MEMORY PRODUCTS

     Our memory products consist primarily of serial electrically erasable
programmable read only memory, referred to as EEPROMs. We sell these devices
primarily into the embedded control market, and we are one of the largest
suppliers of such devices worldwide. EEPROM products are used for non-volatile
program and data storage in systems where such data must be modified frequently.
Serial EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of
very small devices. As a result, Serial EEPROMs are widely used to supply
non-volatile memory in space-sensitive applications such as portable computers,
cellular and cordless telephones, pagers and remote control devices.

                                       3
<PAGE>
     Within this market, we have emphasized providing Serial EEPROMs to
customers that require features such as:

     *    highly compact packaging
     *    low operating voltage
     *    reduced power consumption
     *    extended data retention, and
     *    high endurance.

     We address customer requirements by offering products with extremely small
package sizes and very low operating voltage for both read and write functions
(1.8 volts in contrast with the industry standard of 3.3 volts), together with a
wide operating voltage range (1.8 to 5.5 volts). High performance circuitry and
microcode are also available to reduce power consumption when a device is not in
use, while permitting immediate operating capability when required. The products
also feature long data retention and high erase/write endurance.

     We currently offer a complete Serial EEPROM product family that meets three
principal industry bus interface standards and is available in most standard
density, configuration and packaging alternatives. Our Smart Serials(TM) line of
specialized Serial EEPROMs with user-configurable architecture and other
advanced features targets applications such as cellular telephones and data
communications.

MANUFACTURING

     The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of
our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing
control and to be one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control
industry. By owning our wafer fabrication and the majority of our test
operations, and by employing proprietary statistical process control techniques,
we have been able to achieve high production yields. Direct control over
manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.
This control also allows us to capture the manufacturing and a portion of the
assembly and testing profit margin. Wafer fabrication and wafer test facilities
are located in Chandler, Arizona, which we refer to as Fab 1, and Tempe,
Arizona, which we refer to as Fab 2. We perform product packaging and testing at
our facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. We also use third-party assembly
and test contractors in several Asian countries.

     Wafers are produced in Class 10 fabrication modules in Fab 1 and Fab 2. Fab
1 currently contains approximately 27,000 square feet of usable clean room
space, while Fab 2 currently contains approximately 50,000 square feet of usable
clean room space. Fab 1 currently produces 5- and 6-inch wafers, while Fab 2
currently produces 6-inch and 8-inch wafers. Wafer sort is performed in an 8,000
square foot, Class 10,000 clean room, equipped with automated wafer handlers and
test equipment. Fab 1 and Fab 2 are managed by the same management team and
utilize similar production techniques.

     During fiscal 2001, we intend to cease 5-inch wafer production, and,
thereafter, Fab 1 will produce only 6-inch wafers. As part of our overall
manufacturing rationalization plans, Fab 2 will produce only 8-inch wafers. By
the end of fiscal 2001, 8-inch wafer production will represent approximately 78%
of our total wafer fab capacity.

     In support of our longer-term growth objectives, we recently signed an
agreement to acquire a semiconductor manufacturing complex in Puyallup,
Washington. We are currently conducting our due diligence investigation. Closing
on the purchase is expected to occur by July 31, 2000. The Puyallup facility
contains approximately 100,000 square feet of clean room space. We currently
intend to commence installation of wafer processing equipment in October 2000,
and we currently expect to commence volume production in August 2001. Initially,
we will produce 8-inch wafers using our 0.7-micron and 0.5-micron process
technologies.

     We continue to transition products to smaller geometries and to larger
wafer sizes to reduce future manufacturing costs. We also continue to increase
our manufacturing capacity for 8-inch wafers and to transition products to our
0.7-micron process. Other companies in the industry have experienced
difficulties in transitioning to larger wafers and to smaller geometries,
resulting in reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. We
believe that our transition to smaller geometries and to larger wafers is
important for us to remain competitive. Our future operating results could be
reduced if the transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE CESSATION OF 5-INCH WAFER
PRODUCTION, CAPACITY UTILIZATION OF FAB 1 AND FAB 2, 8-INCH WAFER PRODUCTION BY
THE END OF THE FISCAL 2001, THE ANTICIPATED CLOSING DATE OF THE PUYALLUP
TRANSACTION, AND THE TIMING OF EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION AND VOLUME PRODUCTION AT
THE PUYALLUP FACILITY ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD

                                       4
<PAGE>
DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: INCREASED OR
DECREASED CUSTOMER DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS; THE AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT AND
OTHER SUPPLIES; SUPPLY DISRUPTION; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; COMPETITIVE PRESSURES
ON PRICES; AND OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.

     We currently employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in
developing our microcontroller and memory products. We believe our processes
afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and
greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors
develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product
lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and
non-volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully absorb our process
research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more
rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced CAD tools and software to perform
circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer
fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by
processing test wafers quickly and efficiently.

     Currently, our Thailand facility tests approximately 90% of the products
produced in Fab 1 and Fab 2. The 200,000 square foot Thailand test facility
currently has the capacity to handle up to 120 million units per month. The
Thailand facility also assembles approximately 45% of the products produced in
Fab 1 and Fab 2. During fiscal 2001, we intend to add additional assembly and
test capacity at our Thailand facility in order to allow us to respond to
customer demand. Several third-party contractors located throughout Asia fulfill
the balance of our assembly requirements. Final product test and burn-in
functions are handled by advanced automated equipment.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENT RELATED TO OUR INTENTION TO ADD ADDITIONAL ASSEMBLY
AND TEST CAPACITY AT OUR THAILAND FACILITY IS A FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT.
ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG
OTHERS: CUSTOMER DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS; DELAYS IN CONSTRUCTION AND
FACILITIZATION OF THE ADDITIONAL ASSEMBLY AND TEST CAPACITY AT THE THAILAND
FACILITY; THE AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES; SUPPLY DISRUPTION;
LABOR UNREST; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICES; POLITICAL
INSTABILITY AND EXPROPRIATION; AND OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.

     At March 31, 2000, several third-party contractors located throughout Asia
performed the majority of our assembly operations. Due primarily to cost, yield
and cycle time considerations, we developed an in-house assembly operation
during fiscal 2000 and shifted approximately 45% of our assembly operations to
our Thailand facility. We will continue to depend on third-party contractors for
the balance of our assembly requirements. Third-party assembly and test
companies are experiencing high demand and utilization of their current capacity
which could lead to capacity shortages in the industry.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENT RELATED TO THE CURRENT CAPACITY OF THIRD-PARTY
ASSEMBLY AND TEST COMPANIES IS A FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD
DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: AVAILABILITY
OF SUFFICIENT CAPACITY OF THIRD-PARTIES; SUPPLY DISRUPTION; LABOR UNREST;
CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICES; POLITICAL INSTABILITY
AND EXPROPRIATION; AND OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.

     Our reliance on third parties involves some reduction in our level of
control over the assembly and test portion of our business. While we review the
quality, delivery and cost performance of these third-party contractors, our
future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to
maintain assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current
levels. See also "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Gross Profit," at page 14.

     Our reliance on foreign operations and maintenance of substantially all of
our finished goods in inventory in foreign locations exposes us to foreign
political and economic risks, including:

     *    political, social and economic instability
     *    trade restrictions and changes in tariffs
     *    import and export license requirements and restrictions
     *    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations
     *    disruptions in international transport or delivery
     *    fluctuations in currency exchange rates
     *    difficulties in collecting receivables, and
     *    potentially adverse tax consequences.

     To date, we have not experienced any significant interruptions in our
foreign business operations. If any of these risks materialize, our sales could
decrease and our operations performance could suffer.

                                       5
<PAGE>
     Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing,
increased manufacturing yields can have significant positive effects on gross
profit and overall operating results. During fiscal 2000, we continued to focus
on manufacturing productivity, and maintained average wafer fab line yields in
excess of 90%. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive
implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and
selective upgrading of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. Maintenance
of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the
achievement of our operating results. The manufacture and assembly of integrated
circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices,
such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are
sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in
the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the
performance of our fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in the
semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than
anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are
unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels.

     Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and
equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one
source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers
capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our
standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our
business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of
semiconductors increases. We have faced supply shortages from time to time in
the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than
expected to fill our orders. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment
sources could harm our business.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Our current research and development, or R&D, activities focus on the
design of new microcontroller, memory and mixed-signal products, ASSPs, new
development systems, and software and application-specific software libraries.
We are also developing new design and process technology to achieve further cost
reductions and performance improvements in existing products. As of April 28,
2000, 335 employees were engaged in research and development. In fiscal 2000,
our R&D expenses were $45.6 million, as compared to $40.8 million in fiscal 1999
and $38.4 million in fiscal 1998.

     We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products,
including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing
process technology. We believe these investments are significant factors in
maintaining our competitive position. Our future operating results will depend
to a significant extent on our ability to develop and introduce new products on
a timely basis which can compete effectively on the basis of price and
performance and which address customer requirements. The success of new product
introductions depends on various factors, including:

     *    proper new product selection
     *    timely completion and introduction of new product designs
     *    development of support tools and collateral literature that make
          complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use, and
     *    market acceptance of our customers' end products.

     Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to
time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products
may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to
design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which
could reduce our future operating results.

     Our future success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement
new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process
technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require large
research and development expenditures. Other companies in the industry have
experienced difficulty in effecting transitions to smaller geometry processes
and to larger wafers and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing
yields or delays in product deliveries. We believe that our transition to
smaller geometries and to larger wafers is important for us to remain
competitive. Our future operating results could be reduced if the transition is
substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

                                       6
<PAGE>
SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

     We market our products worldwide through a direct sales organization and
through distributors. In fiscal 2000, we derived 63% of our net sales from sales
through distributors and 37% of our net sales from direct sales to original
equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEM, customers.

     Our direct sales force, currently consisting of 241 people, focuses on
three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain
sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe
and Asia. A worldwide network of national and regional distributors augments our
direct sales force.

     Effective April 1, 2000, we terminated our contractual relationships with
predominately all manufacturers' representatives in the Americas. We are
currently adding additional resources to our existing direct sales force
focusing on the Americas territories. We anticipate that all resources will be
in place by June 30, 2000. See also the discussion on selling, general and
administrative costs under "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Selling, General and
Administrative," at page 16.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE ADDITION OF RESOURCES TO OUR
AMERICAS' DIRECT SALES FORCE ARE FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS
COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: OUR
ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED SALES PERSONNEL; AND GENERAL ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS.

     We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the
continued development of the embedded control market. The majority of our field
sales engineers, referred to as FSEs, field application engineers, referred to
as FAEs, and sales management have technical degrees and have been previously
employed in an engineering environment. We believe that the technical knowledge
of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of field
programmable products. Currently, we have at least one dedicated FAE in every
sales and support center. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide
technical assistance to OEM customers and to conduct periodic training sessions
for FSEs, manufacturer's representatives and distributor sales teams. The FAEs
also frequently conduct technical seminars in major cities around the world.
FAEs also work closely with our distributors and manufacturer's representatives
to provide technical assistance in end-user support and to assist in the sales
process.

     As is common in the semiconductor industry, we provide limited price
protection to our distributors. Under our current policy, distributors receive a
credit for the difference, at the time of a price reduction, between the price
they were originally charged for products in inventory and the reduced price
which we subsequently charge distributors. From time to time, and on a
case-by-case basis, distributors may also receive credit for specific
transactions that we approve in advance. We also grant some distributors limited
rights to return products. We do not recognize net sales and profit on sales to
distributors that have rights of return and price protection until those
distributors have resold the products to end-customers.

     Distributors accounted for 63% of our net sales to customers in fiscal
2000. Our largest distributor accounted for 14% of our total net sales for
fiscal 2000. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our
distributors and our distributors may terminate their relationship with us with
little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of,
one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given
quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns.

     Foreign sales, primarily in Asia and Europe, represented 68% of our
consolidated net sales in fiscal 2000, as compared to 69% in fiscal 1999 and 68%
in fiscal 1998. International sales are predominately billed in U.S. Dollars.
Although foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we
have not experienced any material difficulties as a result of export
restrictions to date.

BACKLOG

     As of April 28, 2000, our backlog was approximately $212.7 million, as
compared to $73.8 million as of April 30, 1999. Our backlog includes all
purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months.

     We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory
within a short time after we receive an order. Our business and, to a large
extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by
short-term orders and shipment schedules. Orders constituting our current
backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the

                                       7
<PAGE>
option of the purchaser without significant penalty. Thus, while backlog is
useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a
reliable measure of sales for any future period. Orders received in a quarter
for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders, have become an
increasingly important component of our quarterly operating results. Turns
orders are more fully discussed in "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of
Operations - Net Sales," at page 13.

COMPETITION

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been
characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with
major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have
greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing,
distribution and other resources than we with which to pursue engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies
may also increase their participation in the market for embedded control
applications.

     In addition, our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of
factors both within and outside our control, including:

     *    the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing
          and diversity of our products
     *    the quality of our customer services and our ability to address the
          needs of our customers
     *    our success in designing and manufacturing new products including
          those implementing new technologies
     *    efficiency of production
     *    adequate sources of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable
          prices
     *    the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own
          products
     *    product introductions by our competitors
     *    the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market
     *    general market and economic conditions, and
     *    protection of our products and processes by effective utilization of
          intellectual property laws.

     Furthermore, capacity in the semiconductor industry is increasing over time
and such increased capacity or improved product availability could adversely
affect our competitive position.

     We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation
and performance of our embedded control products, including their speed,
functionality, density, power consumption, reliability and packaging
alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. We believe that
other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include ease
of use, functionality of application development systems and technical service
and support. We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of
these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which
could harm our business.

     Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease
over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of
our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant, while average
selling prices of our memory products have, until recently, declined over time.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressure in
certain microcontroller product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions.
We have been able to maintain average selling prices by continuing to introduce
new products with more features and higher prices, thereby offsetting price
declines in older products. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices
for our microcontroller or other products as a result of increased pricing
pressure in the future, which would reduce our operating results.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

     Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, licenses and
other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing
processes. As of March 31, 2000, we owned 110 U.S. patents and 35 foreign
patents, expiring on various dates between 2005 and 2019, and had an additional
85 U.S. patent applications and 105 foreign patent applications pending. We
intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing
processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive,
and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In
addition, our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of
sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial
advantage to us. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings
in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which can require significant financial
and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do
not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of

                                       8
<PAGE>
the United States. We believe, however, that our continued success depends
primarily on such factors as the technological skills and innovative abilities
of our personnel rather than on our patents.

     We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and
cross-licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and
manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have
from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications
alleging possible infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights
of others. We investigate all such notices and respond as we believe is
appropriate. Based on industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can
obtain any necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms,
but we cannot assure that licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation
would not ensue or that damages for any past infringement would not be assessed.
Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of
management effort, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual
property rights, or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of
others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation
arising out of infringement claims, could harm our business. See also "Item 3 -
Legal Proceedings," at page 11.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

     We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental
regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic,
volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes,
including the Resource Conversation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Superfund Amendment
and Reauthorization Act, the Clean Air Act and the Water Pollution Control Act.
We believe that we have obtained all of the environmental permits required to
conduct our business. Although we believe that our activities conform to
presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with
present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines,
suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Any regulation could
require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to
comply with environmental regulations. While we have not experienced any
materially adverse effects on our operations from governmental regulations, any
failure by us to control the use of our adequately restrict the discharge of
hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. Environmental
problems may occur that could subject us to future costs or liabilities.

EMPLOYEES

     As of April 28, 2000, we had 2,692 employees worldwide, including 1,923 in
manufacturing, 335 in research and development, 295 in sales and marketing and
139 in finance and administration. Approximately 39% of our employees work at
our Thailand facility. No employees in the U.S. or Thailand are represented by a
labor organization. We have never had a work stoppage and believe that our
employee relations are good.

     Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities
of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. The competition for
qualified engineering and management personnel is intense. We may be
unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and
retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of
one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could
harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our
senior management team.

                                       9
<PAGE>
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive
officers as of May 31, 2000:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name                    Age                Position
----                    ---                --------
<S>                     <C>    <C>
Steve Sanghi            44     Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
Timothy B. Billington   57     Vice President, Manufacturing and Technology Group
Mitchell R. Little      47     Vice President, Americas Sales
Gordon W. Parnell       50     Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
George P. Rigg          60     Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Systems Group
</TABLE>

     Mr. Sanghi has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991,
and Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He has served as a director since
August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer
Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in
Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India.

     Mr. Billington has served as Vice President, Manufacturing and Technology
Group since November 1998. From October 1994 to November 1998, he served as Vice
President, Manufacturing Operations. Mr. Billington holds a B.S. degree in
marketing from Abilene Christian University.

     Mr. Little has served as Vice President, Americas Sales since April 1998.
From November 1995 to April 1998, he served as Vice President, Standard
Microcontroller and ASSP Division. From September 1993 to November 1995, he
served as Vice President, Memory Products and ASSP Division. Mr. Little holds a
BSET from United Electronics Institute.

     Mr. Parnell has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
May 2000. He served as Vice President, Controller and Treasurer from April 1993
to May 2000. Mr. Parnell holds a finance/accounting qualification with the
Association of Certified Accountants from Edinburgh College, Scotland.

     Mr. Rigg has served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Systems
Group since March 1997. From November 1995 to March 1997, he served as Vice
President, Advanced Microcontroller and Technology Division. From June 1989 to
November 1995, he served as Vice President, Logic Products Division. Mr. Rigg
holds a B.S. degree in Physics from Manchester University, England.
