ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

          We design, manufacture, sell, distribute, integrate and support network infrastructure equipment and services, and optical components. We conduct our business along three principal segments: the networking group, the optical components group and development stage enterprise group. Our networking group provides equipment used by commercial customers, governments and telecommunications service providers, and include switches, routers, network physical infrastructure equipment and remote device management equipment as well as specialized networking products for defense and aerospace applications. Our optical components group designs, manufactures and sell optical communications components, primarily through our wholly owned subsidiary Luminent, Inc. These components include fiber optic transceivers, discrete lasers and laser emitting diodes, or LEDs, as well as components for Fiber-to-the-Premises, or FTTP, applications. Our development stage enterprise group seeks to develop new optical components, subsystems and networks and other products for the infrastructure of the Internet. 

          We market and sell our products worldwide, through a variety of channels, which include a dedicated direct sales force, manufacturers’ representatives, value-added-resellers, distributors and systems integrators. We have operations in Europe that provide network system design, integration and distribution services that include products manufactured by third-party vendors, as well as our products. We believe such specialization enhances access to customers and allows us to penetrate targeted vertical and regional markets. 

          We were organized in July 1988 as MRV Technologies, Inc., a California corporation and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1992, at which time we changed our name to MRV Communications, Inc. 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Industry Background 

          Over the past decade, businesses, governments, educational institutions and other organizations have become increasingly reliant on communications networks and software applications as critical strategic assets. With the proliferation of Internet access to consumer households, communications networks have been expanded to deliver new services providing both internal and external connectivity. Productivity gains obtained by investments in network infrastructure have fueled the growth of the global economy, during most of the decade. Increased demands for capacity in network infrastructure resulted in greater bandwidth requirements and increased deployment of optical components and optical networks. 

          However, the global economic slowdown of the past several years has negatively impacted demand for communications products and services. Unfavorable economic conditions resulted in reduced capital spending by telecommunications carriers and service providers, enterprise customers, and governments. Depressed financial markets affected capital availability and capital formation, especially in the communications equipment sector. Such conditions have prevailed during 2001, 2002 and 2003 and may continue to prevail during 2004 and thereafter. For information on the impact the global economic slowdown has had on us, please see the our discussion in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – Market Conditions and Current Outlook.” See also the portion of this Form 10-K entitled “Risk Factors”, including but not limited to the risk factor entitled, “Our Business has been Adversely Impacted by the Worldwide Economic Slowdown and Related Uncertainties.” 

Products and Services 

          We provide integrated, secure network equipment and services to connect data, voice and/or video (both analog and digital), within single buildings, across private networks located in multiple buildings such as college or campus environments (“campus networks”) and in metropolitan areas. At the access point to the network, we provide standard-based products, including Ethernet connectivity over telephone wires. Access speeds (data rates) vary, scaling up to Gigabits-per-second (“Gbps”), and providing security features such as intrusion control and traffic rate control. Our products aggregate network traffic using standard protocols to interconnect high-speed networks. Additional features enable new services such as virtual private networks (“VPN”), permitting remote private network access over the Internet and quality of service (“QoS”), permitting the ability to deliver time-sensitive data, control the bandwidth, set priorities for specific network traffic and provide an appropriate level of security. For campus networks and metropolitan networks, where fiber optic cabling is not available, or cannot easily be deployed, we provide point-to-point connectivity using free-space optics (“FSO”) technology, a line-of-sight technology that uses lasers to provide optical bandwidth connections that can send and receive voice, video, and data information on invisible beams of light. These products can be deployed quickly carrying network traffic from building to building without digging up the street to install fiber optic cabling, or can be used in disaster recovery and back-up applications. We also provide wave division multiplexing (“WDM”) technology, to expand the capacity of existing fiber optic infrastructure by enabling simultaneous transmission of information over multiple wavelengths on the same fiber optic strand. In addition, we provide network management systems that allow users and network administrators to control remote network elements, including network equipment, temperature and alarm sensors and power supply. 

          Our offerings fall into several product groups. For revenue breakdown by product group, please see Note 16, “Segment Reporting” included in the “Notes to Financial Statements” appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K our product groups include: 

          Network Physical Infrastructure - Optical Connectivity. Cabling and network transmission equipment constitute the physical infrastructure, which is essential for computer connectivity, telephony systems and video distribution. We provide a broad range of connectivity products for copper-to-fiber media conversion, signal repeating, and fiber-optimization, including WDM systems and FSO. Like fiber optic cable, FSO communications systems use laser and LED light to transmit a digital signal between two transceivers. However, unlike fiber, light is transmitted through the air (free-space) instead of through a glass strand. 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

          We also offer both coarse wave division multiplexing (“CWDM”) and dense wave division multiplexing (“DWDM”) system. CWDM and DWDM use a technology that puts data from different sources together on an optical fiber, with each signal carrier at the same time on its own separate light wavelength. CWDM combines up to 16 wavelengths onto a single fiber. DWDM combines up to 64 wavelengths onto a single fiber. We also provide network access technology for data and voice over standard telephone wire. This includes long range Ethernet, and voice-over-Ethernet products for converged voice and data networks. 

          Switches and Routers - Ethernet Connectivity. Switching and routing technologies are essential for computer networking. Switches direct the flow of data traffic between individual computers, servers and other elements on a network and routers direct the flow of data traffic between computer networks. We provide a wide range of switching and routing products that scale from small systems designed for small business applications, to very large, high capacity systems for enterprise and telecommunications carrier applications. In some cases, we also offer switches or routers manufactured by third-party vendors, supplied as part of our network system integration and distribution services. 

          Remote Device Management. Our remote presence management products allow network managers to manage, monitor and control, from a central point, the real-time elements such as temperature, humidity, electrical power and the status of other equipment that exist in the network at a remotely located network. 

          We also provide a network management system (“NMS”) with comprehensive management and control for our products as well as other vendors’ products. Our NMS combines complete end-to-end network viewing and performance monitoring with network configuration and fault management including automatic detection and monitoring of devices from other vendors. 

          Other Networking Products. We provide networking products for defense and aerospace applications. Applying real-time data acquisition technology allows high-speed, packet-by-packet transaction processing for flight test validation and simulation systems. These products provide in-flight parameter recording systems in military and commercial aircrafts. We also provide ground test systems as well as protocol analyzers and network performance-testing equipment. In addition, we provide networking data test equipment and a multi-service computing platform for wireless cellular telephony. 

          Services. Our products perform critical networking tasks and are often used in conjunction with network equipment manufactured by other vendors. We believe that pre and post-sales services ensure high-availability, reduce cost of ownership, support business goals and promote customer loyalty. Accordingly, we provide a broad range of service offerings including pre-sale network design, consultation, and site-surveys. We also provide system integration and on-site installation. Post-sales support includes in-warranty as well as out-of-warranty repair and on-site maintenance. Our services include a choice of technical support services including around-the-clock response. 

          Optical Components. We design, manufacture and sell optical communications components, such as fiber optic transceivers. Luminent offers a broad line of solutions, including active and passive components, pluggable transceivers for metropolitan and access applications, and fiber-to-the-home (“FTTH”) components. Our offerings in long-wavelength transceivers include a comprehensive set of data rates, power levels, and form factors. Product offerings range from on-board mounted transceivers to small-form-factor-pluggable (“SFP”) transceivers, in both standard and long reach models. Standard network protocols we support include Gigabit Ethernet, SONET/SDH (an acronym for “Synchronous Optical Network/Synchronous Digital Hierarchy”) and Fibre Channel, an interconnection standard designed to connect peripherals, mass storage systems, archiving and imaging systems, and engineering workstations. 

          Our FTTH product line offers a number of products for multiplexing cable TV video and bi-directional data over single fibers, providing high quality video with high data throughput. These products include passive combiners, bi-directional transceivers, and Triplexer subsystems. Offerings in CWDM include a full 16-wavelength CWDM system implemented in a number of transceiver and discrete laser form factors. In addition, we provide a full set of passive multiplexers and add/drops components. 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Sales and Marketing 

          We employ various methods, such as public relations, advertising, and trade shows to build awareness of our products as well as establishing our brand name, MRV. We conduct our public relations activities both internally and through relationships with outside agencies. We focus on major public relations activities focused around new product introductions, corporate partnerships and other events of interest to the market. We supplement our public relations through media advertising programs, including electronic media, and attendance at various trade shows throughout the year, both in the United States and internationally. 

     Worldwide Sales 

          Our worldwide sales and marketing organization, at December 31, 2003, consisted of approximately 350 employees, including sales representatives, technical support and management. We have field sales offices in more than 20 countries and sell our products and services both directly and through channel partners with support from their sales force. Our channel partners include distributors, value-added resellers, and system integrators. We conduct international operations in branch offices located in Argentina, Belgium, China, Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Singapore, Switzerland, Sweden, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Our international field offices are involved in the sales and distribution of our products and provide system installation, technical support, and follow-up services to end users of our products. 

          Additionally, our offices in Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland sell and market our products along with other products manufactured by third-party vendors, supplied as part of network system integration and distribution services. These operations provide system design, network integration and post-sales support. These services enhance our ability to penetrate targeted vertical and regional markets. We believe that partnering with successful third-party vendors in certain areas helps to provide growth opportunities beyond the limitations of our product line. 

          No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue or accounts receivable as of December 31, 2003 or for any of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003. 

     Markets Served 

          We primarily serve the following markets: 

          Campus Enterprise Market. We provide connectivity products for inter-building and intra-building networking through our optical and free-space optics connectivity equipment (inter-building) and our Ethernet aggregation equipment (intra-building). We also provide data-center management services, and our remote device management products manage large enterprise data centers. 

          Telecommunication Carrier and Service Provider Markets. We provide both optical transport and Ethernet aggregation equipment, including switching and routing to telecommunication carriers and service providers, such as cable-TV multi-service operators. 

          Vertical and Regional Markets. For certain products, we focus on vertical and regional markets, including health care, financial, defense, aerospace and educational markets. We provide products and services with capabilities that address the specific needs of these markets. 

          Optical Components. Our optical components are designed for use by original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) or end-users that use our components for optical interfaces on communications equipment. Markets served by these systems vendors include multiple building private networks, or campus networks, as well as metropolitan and access markets including the FTTH market. We also sell components to other optical components vendors. 

Competition 

          The communications equipment and optical component industries are intensely competitive. We compete directly with a number of established and emerging networking and optical components companies. 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

          Direct competitors in network physical infrastructure products, switches and routers generally include Adva, Alcatel, Allied Telesyn, Ciena, Cisco Systems, Dell, Enterasys, Extreme Networks, Foundry Networks, Lucent Technologies, Nortel Networks and Riverstone. Our competitors in fiber optic components include Agilent Technologies, Avanex, Inc., Bookham Technology, Finisar Corporation, Fujitsu, Infineon AG, JDS Uniphase Corp., Optical Communication Products, Inc., Sumitomo, TriQuint Semiconductor, Inc. and Tyco International, Ltd. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources and larger installed customer bases than we do. Several of these competitors have recently introduced or announced their intentions to introduce new competitive products. Many of the larger companies with which we compete, offer customers a broader product line, which provides a more comprehensive networking solution than we provide. Accordingly, in certain regional markets we have partnered with other vendors in a effort to enhance our overall capability in providing products and services. 

          The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we compete include: 

  -    Product performance, features, quality and price; 
  
  -    A comprehensive range of complementary products and services; 
  
  -    Customer service and technical support; 
  
  -    Lead and delivery times; 
  
  -    Timeliness of new products introductions; 
  
  -    Global presence, including distribution network; 
  
  -    Conformance to standards; and 
  
  -    Brand name. 


          Recent consolidation is likely to permit our various competitors to devote significantly greater resources to the development and marketing of new competitive products and the marketing of existing competitive products to their larger installed customer bases. We expect that competition will increase substantially as a result of these and other industry consolidations and alliances, as well as the emergence of new competitors. 

Product Development and Engineering 

          We believe that in order to maintain our technological competitiveness and to better serve our customers, we must enhance our existing products and continue to develop new products. Accordingly, we focus a significant amount of resources on product development and engineering. During 2002, for strategic reasons, including efficiency and increased focus on revenue-generating products, we consolidated product development and engineering efforts from some affiliated startup companies into our operating product divisions. We believe these changes are an important part of the process of responding to the current economic conditions and sharpening our focus on providing solutions for customers. 

          Our product development and engineering expenses were $31.0 million, $49.4 million and $94.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Details regarding product development and engineering expenses by segments follow. 

          Networking Group. Product development and engineering expenses from our networking group were $18.4 million, $21.0 million and $45.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These expenses include income from recapturing accelerated deferred stock expense due to terminations that amounted to $488,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, while the two years ended December 31, 2002 includes deferred stock expense that amounted to $2.1 million and $9.7 million, respectively. 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

          Optical Components Group. Product development and engineering expenses from our optical components group were $6.9 million, $10.5 million and $18.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These expenses include income from recapturing accelerated deferred stock expense due to terminations that amounted to $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, while the year ended December 31, 2001 includes deferred stock expense that amounted to $4.3 million. 

          Development Stage Enterprise Group. Product development and engineering expenses from our development stage enterprise group were $5.7 million, $17.8 million and $31.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 

Manufacturing 

          We outsource our board-level assembly and on some occasions, complete turnkey production to independent contract manufacturers for our networking products, which include our switches and routers, remote device management products and networking physical infrastructure equipment. Outsourcing, we believe, allows us to react more quickly to market demand, avoid the significant capital investment required to establish automated manufacturing and assembly facilities and concentrate resources on product design and development. Our in-house manufacturing operations primarily perform the functions of materials management, and, in an effort to ensure quality and reliability, quality assurance, equipment burn-in (testing new equipment by turning the power on), as well as inspection and final testing. Our manufacturing processes and procedures are generally ISO 9000 certified and so are those of our vendors. 

          Our optical components are designed and manufactured in our ISO 9000 certified manufacturing and production facilities in California and Taiwan. We benefit from our in-house vertically integrated opto-electronic fabrication capabilities, which allows us to provide low cost, highly reliable products, and to better respond to customer requirements. Our optical transmission production process involves: 

  -    Wafer processing for semiconductor laser diode and LED chip manufacturing under stringent quality procedures using advanced wafer fabrication technology; 
  
  -    High precision electronic and mechanical assembly; and 
  
  -    Final assembly and testing. 


          Typical assembly processes include die attach, wire bond, substrate attachment and fiber coupling. We also conduct tests at various stages of the manufacturing process using commercially available and internally built testing systems that incorporate proprietary procedures. We perform final product tests virtually on all of our products prior to shipment to customers. Many of the key processes used in Luminent’s products are proprietary; and, therefore, many of the key components of its products are designed and produced internally. 

     Components 

          We utilize a wide variety of components, supplies and products from a substantial number of vendors around the world. Certain of our products rely on a single or limited number of suppliers, although we to locate alternative sources if the need arises. The failure of delivery by our vendors in a timely manner of critical components could adversely affect our business. For a discussion of the risks associated with suppliers, please see the portion of this Form 10-K entitled “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk factor entitled, “We May Lose Sales if Suppliers of Critical Components and Products Fail to Meet Our Needs.” 

Intellectual Property 

          To date, we have relied principally on a combination of patents, copyrights and trade secrets to protect proprietary technology. Generally, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and key suppliers and otherwise seek to limit access to and distribution of the source code to software and other proprietary information. These steps may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technologies or a third party may independently develop technology similar or superior to any of our possesses. 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Development Stage Enterprises 

          We hold majority interests in Charlotte’s Networks, All Optical Networks, and Optical Crossing as well as minority investments in Dune Networks, Hyperchannel, PhoneDo Networks and RedC Optical Networks. As of December 2003, the majority of our expenses for development stage enterprises were incurred in Charlotte’s Networks. 

Employees 

          As of December 31, 2003, we employed a total of approximately 1,250 full-time employees compared with approximately 1,400 at December 31, 2002. Of these 1,250 employees, approximately 600 are in manufacturing, 200 in product development and engineering and 450 in sales, marketing and general administration. Approximately 850 employees are in locations outside the United States. None of our employees are represented by a union or governed by a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe our employee relationships are satisfactory. We also believe that our long-term success depends in part on our continued ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that it will continue to be successful in the future. The risks associated with dependence on qualified personnel are more fully discussed in the “Risk Factors” section contained in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 

Certain Risk Factors That Could Affect Future Results 

You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Form 10-K, including the risk factors listed below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risk not now known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. 

If any of these risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed. If our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 

This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We undertake no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K. 

Our Business Has Been Adversely Impacted By The Worldwide Economic Slowdown And Related Uncertainties. 

          Weaker economic conditions worldwide, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, have contributed to the current technology industry slowdown and impacted our business resulting in: 

  -    reduced demand for our products, particularly fiber optic components; 
  
  -    increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; 
  
  -    increased price competition for our products; 
  
  -    excess manufacturing capacity under current market conditions; and 
  
  -    higher overhead costs, as a percentage of revenues. 


9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

These unfavorable economic conditions and reduced capital spending in the telecommunications industry detrimentally affected sales to service providers, network equipment companies, e-commerce and Internet businesses, and the manufacturing industry in the United States, during 2001, 2002, 2003 and may affect them for 2004 and thereafter. Announcements by industry participants and observers indicate there is a continuing slowdown in industry spending and participants are seeking to reduce existing inventories and we are experiencing these reductions in our business. As a result of these factors, our revenues have declined and we reported net losses of $27.0 million, $479.8 million and $326.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our business may continue to suffer from adverse economic conditions worldwide and our net losses during these periods. Our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties, and we may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. Recent geopolitical and social turmoil in many parts of the world, including actual incidents and potential future acts of terrorism and war, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. These geopolitical and social conditions, together with the resulting economic uncertainties, make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In particular, it is difficult to develop and implement strategy, sustainable business models and efficient operations, and effectively manage manufacturing and supply chain relationships. If the economic or market conditions continue to languish or further deteriorate, or if the economic downturn is exacerbated as a result of political, economic or military conditions associated with current domestic and world events, our businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be further impaired. 

Some Of Our Customers May Not Have The Resources To Pay For Our Products As A Result Of The Current Economic Environment 

          With the current economic slowdown, some of our customers are forecasting that their revenue for the foreseeable future will generally be lower than originally anticipated. Some of these customers are experiencing, or are likely to experience, serious cash flow problems and, as a result, find it increasingly difficult to obtain financing, if at all. If some of these customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or securing alternate financing arrangements, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment for, the amounts that they owe us. Furthermore, they may not order as many products from us as originally forecast, or cancel orders with us entirely. The inability of some of our potential customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our cash flow, the timing of our revenue recognition and the amount of revenue, which may cause our stock price to decline. 

Our Markets Are Subject To Rapid Technological Change, And To Compete Effectively, We Must Continually Introduce New Products That Achieve Market Acceptance. 

          The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost effective transmission capacity, or bandwidth, increases. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. We have in the past experienced delays in product development and these delays may occur in the future. Therefore, to the extent customers defer or cancel orders in the expectation of a new product release or there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: 

  -    changing product specifications and customer requirements; 
  
  -    difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; 
  
  -    difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; 
  
  -    difficulties with contract manufacturers; 
  
  -    changing market or competitive product requirements; and 


10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

  -    unanticipated engineering complexities. 


          The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In order to compete, we must be able to deliver products to customers that are highly reliable, operate with its existing equipment, lower the customer’s costs of acquisition, installation and maintenance, and provide an overall cost-effective solution. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, our new products may not gain market acceptance or we may not be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond effectively to technological changes would significantly harm our business. 

Defects In Our Products Resulting From Their Complexity Or Otherwise Could Hurt Our Financial Performance. 

          Complex products, such as those we offer, may contain undetected software or hardware errors when we first introduce them or when we release new versions. The occurrence of these errors in the future, and our inability to correct these errors quickly or at all, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products. It could also result in material warranty expense, diversion of engineering and other resources from our product development efforts and the loss of credibility with, and legal actions by, our customers, system integrators and end users. Any of these or other eventualities resulting from defects in our products could cause our sales to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 

Our Operating Results Could Fluctuate Significantly From Quarter To Quarter. 

          Our operating results for a particular quarter are extremely difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results could fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and from year to year. This could result from any one or a combination of factors such as: 

  -    the cancellation or postponement of orders; 
  
  -    the timing and amount of significant orders from our largest customers; 
  
  -    our success in developing, introducing and shipping product enhancements and new products; 
  
  -    the mix of products we sell; 
  
  -    software, hardware or other errors in the products we sell requiring replacements or increased warranty reserves; 
  
  -    adverse effects to our financial statements resulting from, or necessitated by, past and future acquisitions or deferred stock expense; 
  
  -    our periodic reviews of goodwill and other intangibles that lead to impairment charges; 
  
  -    new product introductions by our competitors; 
  
  -    pricing actions by our competitors or us; 
  
  -    the timing of delivery and availability of components from suppliers; 
  
  -    political stability in the areas of the world we operate in; 
  
  -    changes in material costs; 
  
  -    currency fluctuations; and 
  
  -    general economic conditions. 


11 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

          Moreover, the volume and timing of orders we receive during a quarter are difficult to forecast. From time to time, our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. If demand falls below these forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously ordered from us. Our expense levels during any particular period are based, in part, on expectations of future sales. If sales in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

          Our success is dependent, in part, on the overall growth rate of the fiber optic components and networking industry. The Internet or the industries that serve it may not continue to grow and even if it does, we may not achieve increased growth. Our business, operating results or financial condition may be adversely affected by any decreases in industry growth rates. In addition, we can give no assurance that our results in any particular period will fall within the ranges for growth forecast by market researchers. 

          Because of these and other factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that, in future periods, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Similarly, the failure by our competitors or customers to meet or exceed the results expected by their analysts or investors could have a ripple effect on us and cause our stock price to decline. 

Cost Containment And Expense Reductions Are Critical To Achieving Positive Cash Flow From Operations And Profitability 

          We are continuing efforts to reduce our expense structure. We believe strict cost containment and expense reductions are essential to achieving positive cash flow from operations in future quarters and returning to profitability, especially since the outlook for future quarters is subject to numerous challenges. Additional measures to contain costs and reduce expenses may be undertaken if revenues and market conditions do not improve. A number of factors could preclude us from successfully bringing costs and expenses in line with our revenues, such as our inability to accurately forecast business activities and further deterioration of our revenues. If we are not able to effectively reduce our costs and achieve an expense structure commensurate with our business activities and revenues, we may have inadequate levels of cash for operations or for capital requirements, which could significantly harm our ability to operate the business. 

The Long Sales Cycles For Our Products May Cause Revenues And Operating Results To Vary From Quarter To Quarter, Which Could Cause Volatility In Our Stock Price. 

          The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict because of the length and variability of the sales and implementation cycles for our products. We do not recognize revenue until a product has been shipped to a customer, all significant vendor obligations have been performed and collection is considered probable. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products and our manufacturing process. This customer evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy initial sales cycle of, depending on the products, many months or more. In addition, some of our customers require that our products be subjected to lifetime and reliability testing, which also can take months or more. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. Even after acceptance of orders, our customers often change the scheduled delivery dates of their orders. Because of the evolving nature of the optical networking and network infrastructure markets, we cannot predict the length of these sales, development or delivery cycles. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause our net sales and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price. 

12 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

We Face Risks In Reselling The Products Of Other Companies. 

          We distribute products manufactured by other companies. To the extent we succeed in reselling the products of these companies, or products of other vendors with which we may enter into similar arrangements, we may be required by customers to assume warranty and service obligations. While these suppliers have agreed to support us with respect to those obligations, if they should be unable, for any reason, to provide the required support, we may have to expend our own resources on doing so. This risk is amplified by the fact that the equipment has been designed and manufactured by others, and is thus subject to warranty claims whose magnitude we are currently unable to fully evaluate. 

The Price Of Our Shares May Continue To Be Highly Volatile. 

          Historically, the market price of our shares has been extremely volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be significantly affected by factors such as: 

  -    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 
  
  -    announcements of technological innovations or new product introductions by us or our competitors; 
  
  -    changes of estimates of our future operating results by securities analysts; 
  
  -    developments with respect to patents, copyrights or proprietary rights; and 
  
  -    general market conditions and other factors. 


          In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for shares of the common stocks of technology companies in particular, and that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Similarly, the failure by our competitors or customers to meet or exceed the results expected by their analysts or investors could have a ripple effect on us and cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. 

Our 2003 Notes Provide For Various Events Of Default That Would Entitle The Holders To Require Us To Immediately Repay The Outstanding Principal Amount, Plus Accrued And Unpaid Interest, In Cash. 

          On June 4, 2003, we completed the sale of $23 million principal amount of 2003 Notes to Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch in a private placement pursuant to Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933. We will be considered in default of the 2003 Notes if any of the following events, among others, occurs: 

  -    our default in payment of any principal amount of, interest on or other amount due under the 2003 Notes when and as due; 
  
  -    the effectiveness of the registration statement, which registered for resale the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2003 Notes, lapses for any reason or is unavailable to the holder of the 2003 Notes for resale of all of the shares issuable upon conversion, other than during allowable grace periods, for a period of five consecutive trading days or for more than an aggregate of 10 trading days in any 365-day period; 
  
  -    the suspension from trading or failure of our common stock to be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market for a period of five (5) consecutive trading days or for more than an aggregate of ten (10) trading days in any 365-day period; 
  
  -    we or our transfer agent notify any holder of our intention not to issue shares of our common stock to the holder upon receipt of any conversion notice delivered in respect of a Note by the holder; 


13 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

  -    we fail to deliver shares of our common stock to the holder within 12 business days of the conversion date specified in any conversion notice delivered in respect of a Note by the holder; 
  
  -    we breach any material representation, warranty, covenant or other term or condition of the 2003 Notes or the Securities Purchase Agreement, or the Registration Rights Agreement relating to 2003 Notes and the breach, if curable, is not cured by us within 10 days; 
  
  -    failure by us for 10 days after notice to comply with any other provision of the 2003 Notes in all material respects, which include abiding by our covenants not to 
  
  o   incur any form of unsecured indebtedness in excess of $17 million, plus obligations arising from the sale of receivables with recourse through our foreign offices, in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices; 
  
  o    repurchase our common stock for an aggregate amount in excess of $5,000,000; pursuant to a stock purchase program that was approved by our Board of Directors and publicly announced on June 13, 2002; or 
  
  o    declare or pay any dividend on any of our capital stock, other than dividends of common stock with respect to our common stock; 
  
  -    we breach provisions of the 2003 Notes prohibiting us from either issuing 
  
  o    our common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of our common at a per share price less than the conversion price per share of the 2003 Notes then in effect, except in certain limited cases; or 
  
  o    securities that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of our common stock at a price that varies or may vary with the market price of our common stock; 
  
  -    we breach any of our obligations under any other debt or credit agreements involving an amount exceeding $3,000,000; or 
  
  -    we become bankrupt or insolvent. 


          If an event of default occurs, any holder of the 2003 Notes can elect to require us to pay the outstanding principal amount, together with all accrued and unpaid interest. 

          Some of the events of default include matters over which we may have some, little or no control. If a default occurs and we do not pay the amounts payable under the 2003 Notes in cash (including any interest on such amounts and any applicable default interest under the 2003 Notes), the holders of the 2003 Notes may protect and enforce their rights or remedies either by suit in equity or by action at law, or both, whether for the specific performance of any covenant, agreement or other provision contained in the 2003 Notes. Any default under the 2003 Notes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition or on the market price of our common stock. 

14 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

In The Event Of A Change Of Control, Holders Of The 2003 Notes Have The Option To Require Immediately Repayment Of The 2003 Notes At A Premium And This Right Could Prevent A Takeover Otherwise Favored By Stockholders. 

          In the event of our “Change of Control,” which essentially means someone acquiring or merging with us, each holder of 2003 Notes has the right to require us to redeem the 2003 Notes in whole or in part at a redemption price of 105% of the principal amount of the 2003 Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest or if the amount is greater, an amount equal to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2003 Notes based on the conversion price at the date the holder gives us notice of redemption, multiplied by the average of the weighted average prices of our common stock during the five days immediately proceeding that date. If a Change of Control were to occur, we might not have the financial resources or be able to arrange financing on acceptable terms to pay the redemption price for all the 2003 Notes as to which the purchase right is exercised. Further, the existence of this right in favor of the holders may discourage or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. 

Sales Of Substantial Amounts Of Our Shares By Selling Stockholders Could Cause The Market Price Of Our Shares To Decline. 

          Selling stockholders are offering for resale under an effective registration statement up to 9,913,914 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2003 Notes. This represents approximately 9.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on February 15, 2004 (or 8.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on that date if pro forma effect were given to the full conversion of the 2003 Notes). Sales of substantial amounts of these shares at any one time or from time to time, or even the availability of these shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of our shares. 

Our Business Is Intensely Competitive And The Evident Trend Of Consolidations In Our Industry Could Make It More So. 

          The markets for fiber optic components and networking products are intensely competitive and subject to frequent product introductions with improved price/performance characteristics, rapid technological change and the continual emergence of new industry standards. We compete and will compete with numerous types of companies including companies that have been established for many years and have considerably greater financial, marketing, technical, human and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger installed customer base, than we do. This may give these competitors certain advantages, including the ability to negotiate lower prices on raw materials and components than those available to us. In addition, many of our large competitors offer customers broader product lines, which provide more comprehensive solutions than our current offerings. We expect that other companies will also enter markets in which we compete. Increased competition could result in significant price competition, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. We can give no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In particular, we expect that prices on many of our products will continue to decrease in the future and that the pace and magnitude of these price decreases may have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. 

          There has been a trend toward industry consolidation for several years. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry. We believe that industry consolidation may provide stronger competitors that are better able to compete. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 

Economic Conditions May Require Us To Reduce The Size Of Our Business Further. 

          In 2002, and to a lesser extent 2003, we undertook significant reductions in force, some of which were accompanied by dispositions of assets, as part of our effort to reduce the size of our operations to better match the reduced sales of our products and services. Weakness in the global economy generally and the fiber optics and telecommunications equipment markets in particular continue to affect our business substantially. We may be required to undertake further reductions in force. Any such steps would likely result in significant charges from write-downs or write-offs of assets, costs of lease terminations, and expenses resulting from the termination of personnel. 

15 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

We Face Risks From Our International Operations. 

          International sales have become an increasingly important part of our operations. The following table sets forth the percentage of our total revenues from sales to customers in foreign countries for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,: 

                          
    2003   2002   2001 
    
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Percentage of total revenue from foreign sales     78 %     74 %     67 % 

          We have offices in, and conduct a significant portion of our operations in and from Israel. Similarly, some of our development stage enterprises are located in Israel. We are, therefore, directly influenced by the political and economic conditions affecting Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a substantial downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Luminent has a minority interest in a large manufacturing facility in the People’s Republic of China in which it manufactures passive fiber optic components and both Luminent and we make sales of our products in the People’s Republic of China. The political tension between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China that continues to exist, could eventually lead to hostilities. Risks we face due to international sales and the use of overseas manufacturing include: 

  -    greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; 
  
  -    the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; 
  
  -    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; 
  
  -    seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world, such as during the summer months in Europe or in the winter months in Asia when the Chinese New Year is celebrated; 
  
  -    difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; 
  
  -    difficulties associated with enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; 
  
  -    the payment of operating expenses in local currencies, which exposes us to risks of currency fluctuations; 
  
  -    higher credit risks requiring cash in advance or letters of credit; 
  
  -    potentially adverse tax consequences; 
  
  -    unanticipated cost increases; 
  
  -    unavailability or late delivery of equipment; 
  
  -    trade restrictions; 
  
  -    limited protection of intellectual property rights; 
  
  -    unforeseen environmental or engineering problems; and 
  
  -    personnel recruitment delays. 


          The majority of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars and to date our business has not been significantly affected by currency fluctuations or inflation. However, as we conduct business in several different countries, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive in particular countries, leading to a reduction in sales in that country. In addition, inflation or fluctuations in currency exchange rates in these countries could increase our expenses. 

16 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

          To date, we have not hedged against currency exchange risks. In the future, we may engage in foreign currency denominated sales or pay material amounts of expenses in foreign currencies and, in that event, may experience gains and losses due to currency fluctuations. Our operating results could be adversely affected by currency fluctuations or as a result of inflation in particular countries where material expenses are incurred. 

We Depend On Third-Party Contract Manufacturers And Therefore Could Face Delays Harming Our Sales. 

          We outsource the board-level assembly, test and quality control of material, components, subassemblies and systems relating to our networking products to third-party contract manufacturers. Though there are a large number of contract manufacturers that we can use for outsourcing, we have elected to use a limited number of vendors for a significant portion of our board assembly requirements in order to foster consistency in quality of the products and to achieve economies of scale. These independent third-party manufacturers also provide the same services to other companies. Risks associated with the use of independent manufacturers include unavailability of or delays in obtaining adequate supplies of products and reduced control of manufacturing quality and production costs. If our contract manufacturers failed to deliver needed components timely, we could face difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of products from other sources in the near term. Our third party manufacturers may not provide us with adequate supplies of quality products on a timely basis, or at all. While we could outsource with other vendors, a change in vendors may require significant lead-time and may result in shipment delays and expenses. Our inability to obtain these products on a timely basis, the loss of a vendor or a change in the terms and conditions of the outsourcing would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 

We May Lose Sales If Suppliers Of Other Critical Components Fail To Meet Our Needs. 

          Our companies currently purchase several key components used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited sources. We depend on these sources to meet our needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products supplied to us over which we have limited control. We have encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components in the past and expect to encounter shortages and delays in the future. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of components, or are unable to redesign products with other components in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. We have no long-term or short-term contracts for any of our components. As a result, a supplier can discontinue supplying components to us without penalty. If a supplier discontinued supplying a component, our business may be harmed by the resulting product manufacturing and delivery delays. 

Our Inability To Achieve Adequate Production Yields For Certain Components We Manufacture Internally Could Result In A Loss Of Sales And Customers. 

          We rely heavily on our own production capability for critical semiconductor lasers and light emitting diodes used in our products. Because we manufacture these and other key components at our own facilities and these components are not readily available from other sources, any interruption of our manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, we have a limited number of employees dedicated to the operation and maintenance of our wafer fabrication equipment, the loss of any of whom could result in our inability to effectively operate and service this equipment. Wafer fabrication is sensitive to many factors, including variations and impurities in the raw materials, the fabrication process, performance of the manufacturing equipment, defects in the masks used to print circuits on the wafer and the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment. We may not be able to maintain acceptable production yields or avoid product shipment delays. In the event adequate production yields are not achieved, resulting in product shipment delays, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 

The Reduced Role Of Acquisitions In Our Current Business Strategy May Negatively Impact Our Growth. 

          Acquisitions were a major part of strategy in the past. However, commensurate with the downturn in the technology sector, we have not made any acquisitions since 2000. The networking business is highly competitive, and while we continue to evaluate possible acquisitions, our decision not to complete any such transactions in the recent past could hamper our ability to enhance existing products and introduce new products on a timely basis. 

17 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

If We Fail To Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property, We May Not Be Able To Compete. 

          We rely on a combination of trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure and patents, copyrights and trademarks to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications will be approved, that any patents that may be issued will protect our intellectual property or that third parties will not challenge any issued patents. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Any of this kind of litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any of this kind of litigation could seriously harm our business. 

We Could In The Future Become Subject To Litigation Regarding Intellectual Property Rights, Which Could Be Costly And Subject Us To Significant Liability. 

          From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Over the years, we have received notices from third parties alleging possible infringement of patents with respect to certain features of our products or our manufacturing processes and in connection with these notices have been involved in discussions with the claimants, including IBM, Lucent, Ortel, Nortel, Rockwell, the Lemelson Foundation and Finisar. Aggregate revenues potentially subject to the foregoing claims amounted to approximately 18%, 20% and 28% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These or other companies may pursue litigation with respect to these or other claims. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual property rights relevant to our products that could arise in the future, we could be required to obtain licenses to the infringing technology, to pay substantial damages under applicable law, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products or to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Licenses may not be available from third parties either on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, litigation frequently involves substantial expenditures and can require significant management attention, even if we ultimately prevail. Accordingly, any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 

In The Future, We May Initiate Claims Or Litigation Against Third Parties For Infringement Of Our Proprietary Rights To Protect These Rights Or To Determine The Scope And Validity Of Our Proprietary Rights Or The Proprietary Rights Of Competitors. These Claims Could Result In Costly Litigation And The Diversion Of Our Technical And Management Personnel. 

          Necessary licenses of third-party technology may not be available to us or may be very expensive, which could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. From time to time we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. We cannot assure you that third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm our ability to manufacture and sell our products. 

We Are Dependent On Certain Members Of Our Senior Management. 

          We are substantially dependent upon Dr. Shlomo Margalit, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Technical Officer, and Mr. Noam Lotan, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of either of these officers could have a material adverse effect on us. We have entered into employment agreements with Dr. Margalit and Mr. Lotan and are the beneficiary of key man life insurance policies in the amounts of $1.0 million each on their lives. However, we can give no assurance that the proceeds from these policies will be sufficient to compensate us in the event of the death of either of these individuals, and the policies are not applicable in the event that either of them becomes disabled or is otherwise unable to render services to us. 

18 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Our Business Requires Us To Attract And Retain Qualified Personnel. 

          Our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products, run our operations and our ability to compete with our current and future competitors depends, and will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for executives and qualified personnel in the networking and fiber optics industries is intense, and we will be required to compete for those personnel with companies having substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. To attract executives, we have had to enter into compensation arrangements, which have resulted in substantial deferred stock expense and adversely affected our results of operations. We may enter into similar arrangements in the future to attract qualified executives. If we should be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business could be materially adversely affected. 

Environmental Regulations Applicable To Our Manufacturing Operations Could Limit Our Ability To Expand Or Subject Us To Substantial Costs. 

          We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing processes. Further, we are subject to other safety, labeling and training regulations as required by local, state and federal law. Any failure by us to comply with present and future regulations could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, these kinds of regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. We cannot assure you that these legal requirements will not impose on us the need for additional capital expenditures or other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to operate within these or future legal requirements, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, suspend our operations or make costly changes to our manufacturing processes or facilities. 

Our Headquarters Are Located In Southern California, And Certain Of Our Manufacturing Facilities Are Located In Southern California And Taiwan, Where Disasters May Occur That Could Disrupt Our Operations And Harm Our Business 

          Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Fernando Valley of Southern California and some of our manufacturing facilities are located in Southern California and Taiwan. Historically, these regions has been vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires and floods, which at times have disrupted the local economies and posed physical risks to our property. 

          In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war targeted at the United States, and specifically Southern California, could cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. 

If We Fail To Accurately Forecast Component And Material Requirements For Our Manufacturing Facilities, We Could Incur Additional Costs Or Experience Manufacturing Delays. 

          We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component requirements. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for the components. For substantial increases in production levels, some suppliers may need nine months or more lead-time. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our net sales. 

19 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents

Legislative Actions, Higher Insurance Costs and Potential New Accounting Pronouncements are Likely to Impact Our Future Financial Position and Results of Operations. 

          There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules and there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have increased general and administrative costs. In addition, insurers are likely to increase rates as a result of high claims rates over the past year and our rates for our various insurance policies are likely to increase. Further, proposed initiatives could result in changes in accounting rules, including legislative and other proposals to account for employee stock options as an expense. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and adversely affect our operating results. 

We Are At Risk Of Securities Class Action Or Other Litigation That Could Result In Substantial Costs And Divert Management’s Attention And Resources. 

          In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to the volatility and potential volatility of our stock price or the volatility of Luminent’s stock price following its initial public offering, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities or other litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 

If Our Cash Flow Significantly Deteriorates In The Future, Our Liquidity And Ability To Operate Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected. 

          We incurred net losses in 2001, 2002 and 2003, and our combined cash and short-term investments declined in each of those years as well. Although we generated cash from operations, we could experience negative overall cash flow in future quarters. If our cash flow significantly deteriorates in the future, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. For example, our ability to raise financial capital may be hindered due to our net losses and the possibility of future negative cash flow. An inability to raise financial capital would limit our operating flexibility. 

Delaware Law And Our Ability To Issue Preferred Stock May Have Anti-Takeover Effects That Could Prevent A Change In Control, Which May Cause Our Stock Price To Decline. 

          We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. This preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by stockholders. The terms of any series of preferred stock may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividend, liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No preferred stock is currently outstanding. The issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock, and therefore, reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party and thereby preserve control by the present management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed under Section 203. These provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 

