ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

 

INTRODUCTION 

 

Microsemi Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1960. The name was changed from Microsemiconductor Corporation in February 1983. Unless the context otherwise requires, the “Company”, “Microsemi”, “we”, “our”, “ours”, and “us” refer to Microsemi Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our principal executive offices are located at 2381 Morse Ave., Irvine, California 92614 and our telephone number is (949) 221-7100. 

 

We are a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits and high reliability discrete semiconductors. Our semiconductors manage and control or regulate power, protect against transient voltage spikes and transmit, receive and amplify signals. 

 

Our products include individual components as well as integrated circuit solutions that enhance customer designs by improving performance and reliability, battery optimization, reducing size or protecting circuits. The principal markets we serve include implanted medical, defense/aerospace and satellite, notebook computers and monitors, automotive and mobile connectivity applications. 

 

We operate in a single industry segment as a manufacturer of semiconductors in different geographic areas. (See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for geographic information on revenues, operating results and total assets.) 

 

We are an accelerated filer as defined in section §240.12b-2 Rule 12b-2. We filed forms 10-Q, 10-K, 8-K and other reports to the SEC as required. The public may read and copy any materials that we filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our electronic filings. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. 

 

Our web site address is http://www.microsemi.com. Our filings with the SEC on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments, are made accessible on such web site as soon as practicable and always free of charge. Such web site is not intended to constitute any part of this report. 

 

Please read the information under the heading “IMPORTANT FACTORS RELATED TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS” below, which describes and refers to some of the important risks and uncertainties. 

 

IMPORTANT FACTORS RELATED TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS 

 

Some of the statements in this report or incorporated by reference are forward-looking, including, without limitation, the statements under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Forward-looking statements include those that contain words like “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “potential,” “intend,” “maintain,” “continue” and variations of these words or comparable words. In addition, all of the information herein that does not state an historical fact is forward-looking, including any statement or implication about a future time, result or other circumstance. Forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from the results that the forward-looking statements suggest for various reasons. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

 

The forward-looking statements included in this report are based on, among other items, current assumptions that we will be able to meet our current operating cash and debt service requirements, that we will be able to successfully complete announced plant closures and plant consolidations on the anticipated schedule and without unanticipated costs or expenses, that we will continue to retain the full-time services of all of our present executive officers and key employees, that we will be able to successfully resolve any disputes and other business matters as anticipated, that competitive conditions within the analog, mixed signal and discrete semiconductor, integrated circuit or custom component assembly industries will not affect us adversely, that 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
our customers will not cancel orders or terminate or renegotiate their purchasing relationships with us, that we will retain existing key personnel, that our forecasts will reasonably anticipate market demand for our products, and that there will be no other material adverse changes in our operations or business. Other factors that could cause results to vary materially from current expectations are referred to elsewhere in this report. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments that are difficult to make and future circumstances that are difficult to predict accurately or correctly. Forecasting and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause us to alter our internal forecasts, which may in turn affect expectations or future results. We do not undertake to announce publicly the changes that may occur in our expectations. Readers are cautioned against giving undue weight to any of the forward-looking statements. 

 

Adverse changes to our results could result from any number of factors, including but not limited to fluctuations in economic conditions, potential effects of inflation, lack of earnings visibility, dependence upon certain customers or markets, dependence upon suppliers, future capital needs, rapid technological changes, difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, ability to realize cost savings or productivity gains, potential cost increases, dependence on key personnel, difficulties regarding hiring and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive labor market, risks of doing business in international markets, and problems of third parties. 

 

The inclusion of forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives or plans will be achieved. 

 

Although the readers may also refer to the risk factors in our previous filings, we are setting out some of the more relevant risk factors below in full for the convenience of the readers: 

 

Downturns in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry have adversely affected the operating results and the value of our business. 

 

The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and the value of our business has declined during the “down” portion of these cycles. During recent years, we as well as many others in our industry, experienced significant declines in the pricing of, as well as demand for, products. The market for semiconductors has experienced severe and prolonged downturns. In the future, these downturns may prove to be as, or possibly more, severe. The markets for our products depend on continued demand in the mobile connectivity, automotive, digital media, telecommunications, computers/peripherals, military and aerospace, space/satellite, industrial/commercial and medical markets, and these end-markets have experienced changes in demand that have adversely affected our operating results and financial condition. 

 

Concentration of the factories in the semiconductor industry. 

 

Relevant portions of the semiconductor industry, and those that serve or supply this industry, tend somewhat to be concentrated in certain areas of the world, and therefore, the semiconductor industry has from time to time been, and may from time to time be adversely affected by natural disasters in various locale, epidemics and health advisories such as those related to Sudden Acute Respiratory Syndrome. 

 

The semiconductor business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our value. 

 

The semiconductor industry, including the areas in which we do business, is highly competitive. We expect intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants. Competition is based on price, product performance, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. Pricing pressures may emerge. For instance, competitors may attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices. The market for commercial products is characterized by declining selling prices. We anticipate that our average selling prices will decrease in future periods, although the timing and amount of these decreases cannot be predicted with any certainty. The pricing pressure in the semiconductor industry in recent years has been due primarily to the Asian currency crisis, industry-wide excess manufacturing capacity, weak economic growth, the slowdown in capital spending that followed the “dot-com” collapse, the reduction in capital spending by telecom companies and satellite companies, and certain effects of the tragic events of terrorism on September 11, 2001. We compete in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater resources than we have, and thus may be better able to pursue acquisition candidates and to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
introduce competing products in the future. We have numerous competitors. Some of our current major competitors are Motorola, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., Philips Electronics, ON Semiconductor, L.L.C., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, Micrel Incorporated, International Rectifier Corporation, Semtech Corporation, Linear Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Diodes, Inc., Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and its subsidiary Siliconix Incorporated. Some of our competitors in developing markets are Triquint Semiconductor, Inc., Mitel Corporation, RF Micro Devices, Inc., Conexant Systems, Inc., Anadigics, Inc. and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future or competitive pressures may harm our financial condition, operating results or cash flows. 

 

New technologies could result in the development of competing products and a decrease in demand for our products. 

 

Our financial performance depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our failure to develop new technologies or to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenues and/or a loss of our market share to competitors. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize much of the semiconductor industry. A fundamental shift in technologies in our product markets could have material adverse effects on our competitive position within the industry. 

 

For instance, presently we are challenged to develop new products for use with various alternative wireless LAN standards, such as 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g and combinations thereof. Although this development has already resulted in design wins related to 802.11a and 802.11g, the solutions related to the other standards and the combination of all of the standards are still in development and are in constant change. The success of products using various standards is subject to rapid changes in market preferences and advancements in competing technologies. 

 

Failure to protect our proprietary technologies or maintain the right to use certain technologies may negatively affect our ability to compete. 

 

We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies. Our future success and competitive position may depend in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our principal products. We do not have significant patent protection on many aspects of our technology. Our reliance upon protection of some of our technology as “trade secrets” will not necessarily protect us from the use by other persons of our technology, or their use of technology that is similar or superior to that which is embodied in our trade secrets. Others may be able to independently duplicate or exceed our technology in whole or in part. We may not be successful in maintaining the confidentiality of our technology, dissemination of which could have material adverse effects on our business. In addition, litigation may be necessary to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights. In instances in which we hold any patents or patent licenses, any patents held by us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under any patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Patents often provide only narrow protection and require public disclosure of information that may otherwise be subject to trade secret protection. Also patents expire and are not renewable. Obtaining or protecting our proprietary rights may require us to defend claims of intellectual property infringement by our competitors. While we are not currently engaged as a defendant in intellectual property litigation that we believe will have a material adverse effect on us, we could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed or are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We are involved in certain patent litigation (see Legal Proceedings) which could cause legal costs to increase above normal levels over the next several years. It is not possible to estimate the exact amounts of these costs, but it is possible that these costs could have a negative effect on our future results. 

 

If any such infringements exist, arise or are claimed in the future, we may be exposed to substantial liability for damages and may need to obtain licenses from the patent owners, discontinue or change our processes or products or expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies. We may not be successful in such efforts or such licenses may not be available under reasonable terms. Our failure to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms or the occurrence of related litigation itself could have material adverse effects on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Future business could be adversely affected by delays in production of compound semiconductor technology. 

 

We utilize process technology to manufacture compound semiconductors such as gallium arsenide (GaAs), indium gallium phosphide (InGaP), silicon germanium (SiGe), and indium gallium arsenide phosphide (InGaAsP) primarily to manufacture semiconductor components. We are pursuing this development effort internally as well as with third party foundries. Our efforts sometimes may not result in commercially successful products. Certain of our competitors offer this capability and our customers may purchase our competitors’ products. The third party foundries that we use may delay or fail to deliver technology and products to us. Our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by delay or by our failure to produce these products. 

 

Compound semiconductor products may not successfully compete with silicon-based products. 

 

Our choices of technologies for development and future implementation may not reflect future market demand. The production of GaAs, InGaP, SiGe, InGaAsP or SiC integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits, and we believe it will continue in the future to be more costly. The costs differ because of higher costs of raw materials, lower production yields and higher unit costs associated with lower production volumes. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used in process technologies for integrated circuits, and these technologies continue to improve in performance. As a result, we must offer compound semiconductor products that provide vastly superior performance to that of silicon for specific applications in order for them to be competitive with silicon products. If we do not offer compound semiconductor products that provide sufficiently superior performance to offset the cost differential and otherwise successfully compete with silicon-based products, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, other alternatives exist and are being developed, and may have superior performance or lower cost. 

 

We may not be able to develop new products to satisfy changes in demand. 

 

We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to identify new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. In addition, to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce package sizes, improve manufacturing yields and expand sales. We may not be able to accomplish these goals. Designs that we have introduced recently include primarily integrated circuits and subsystems such as class D audio subsystems for newly-introduced home theatre DVD players supporting surround sound, PDA backlighting subsystems, backlight control and power management solutions for the automotive market, LED driver solutions and power amplifiers for certain wireless LAN components. Their success will be subject to various risks and uncertainties. 

 

We must commit resources to production prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment. 

 

We sell products primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Many of these purchase orders may be revised or cancelled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products without any advance purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to them could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

 

Variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins. 

 

Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular product’s design and our experience in manufacturing that type of product. We have in the past experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields, which have adversely affected our gross margins. 

 

The fabrication of products is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous circuits on each wafer to be non-functional, thereby reducing yields. These difficulties include: 

 

  • Defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns onto our wafers;  

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
  • Impurities in the materials used;  

 

  • Contamination of the manufacturing environment; and  

 

  • Equipment failure.  

 

Because a large portion of our costs of manufacturing is relatively fixed, and average selling prices for our products tend to decline over time, it is critical for us to improve the number of shippable circuits per wafer and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain and improve our results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and have done so in the past. Moreover, our process technology has primarily used standard silicon semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and production yields of compound integrated circuits have been relatively low compared with silicon circuit devices. We may be unable to continue to improve yields in the future, and we may suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies. In either case, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

 

Our inventories may become obsolete and other assets may be subject to risks. 

 

The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage closely our production and inventory levels. Life cycles for some of our products can be as short as 6 to 24 months. Inventory may also become obsolete because of adverse changes in end-market demand. We may in the future be adversely affected by obsolete or excess inventories which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. The asset values determined under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for inventory and other assets each involve the making of material estimates by us, many of which could be based on mistaken assumptions or judgments. See “There may be goodwill impairments that would adversely affect Microsemi” and “There may be impairments of long-lived assets that would adversely affect Microsemi”. 

 

International operations and sales expose us to material risks. 

 

Revenues from foreign markets represent a significant portion of total revenues. We maintain facilities or contracts with entities in China, Ireland, Thailand, the Philippines, and Taiwan. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: 

 

  • Changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;  

 

  • Trade restrictions;  

 

  • Transportation delays;  

 

  • Work stoppages;  

 

  • Economic and political instability;  

 

  • Terrorist activities;  

 

  • Changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates;  

 

  • Difficulties in collecting receivables and enforcing contracts generally; and  

 

  • Currency exchange rate fluctuations.  

 

In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products, assets or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. Therefore, the risk of piracy of our technology and products may be greater in those foreign countries. We may experience material adverse effects on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows in the future. 

 

Delays in beginning production, implementing production techniques, resolving problems associated with technical equipment malfunctions, or issues related to government or customer qualification of facilities could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and our ability to realize cost savings. 

 

Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continually being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. We have from time to time experienced difficulty in beginning production at 

 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
new facilities or in effecting transitions to new facilities or new manufacturing processes. As a consequence, we have at times experienced delays in product deliveries and reduced yields. We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Although thus far our Capacity Optimization Enhancement Program has proceeded on schedule, our operating results also could be adversely affected by increased costs and expenses related to relocation of production between our facilities if we encounter difficulties or delays or a technical or regulatory nature, including any issues related to government or customer qualification of our other facilities and production lines for the production of hi-rel products. 

 

Interruptions, delays or cost increases affecting our materials, parts, equipment or subcontractors may impair our competitive position. 

 

Our manufacturing operations, and the outside manufacturing operations, which we use increasingly, depend upon obtaining, in some instances, a governmental qualification of the manufacturing process, and in all instances, adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment, including silicon, mold compounds and lead frames, on a timely basis from third parties. Some of the outside manufacturing operation we use are based in foreign countries. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment in a timely manner or if the costs of materials, parts or equipment increase significantly. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we generally use materials, parts and equipment available from multiple suppliers, we have a limited number of suppliers for some materials, parts and equipment. While we believe that alternate suppliers for these materials, parts and equipment are available, an interruption could adversely affect our operations. 

 

Some of our products are manufactured, assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors. Some of these contractors are based in foreign countries. We generally do not have any long-term agreements with these subcontractors. As a result, we may not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality. Outside manufacturers generally will have longer lead times for delivery of products as compared with our internal manufacturing, and therefore, when ordering from these suppliers, we will be required to make longer-term estimates of our customers’ current demand for products, and these estimates are difficult to make. Also, due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we are forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test our products. Any product delivery delays in the future could have material adverse effects on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if our relationships with these subcontractors were disrupted or terminated. 

 

We depend on third party subcontractors in Asia for assembly and packaging of a portion of our products. The packaging of our products is performed by a limited group of subcontractors and some of the raw materials included in our products are obtained from a limited group of suppliers. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on sole or limited source suppliers, disruption or termination of any of these sources could occur and such disruptions or terminations could harm our business and operating results. In the event that any of our subcontractors were to experience financial, operational, production or quality assurance difficulties resulting in a reduction or interruption in supply to us, our operating results could suffer until alternate qualified subcontractors, if any, were to become available. 

 

We anticipate that many of our next-generation products may be manufactured by third party subcontractors in Asia, and to the extent that such potential manufacturing relationships develop, they may be with a limited group of subcontractors. Therefore, any disruptions or terminations of manufacturing could harm our business and operating results. Also these subcontractors must be qualified by the U.S. government or customer for hi-rel processes. Historically DSCC has rarely qualified any foreign manufacturing or assembly lines for reasons of national security; therefore, our ability to move certain manufacturing offshore may be limited or delayed. 

 

Fixed costs may reduce operating results if our sales fall below expectations. 

 

Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future sales. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are relatively fixed. Decreases in lead times between orders and shipments and customers’ ordering practices could adversely affect our ability 

 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
to project future sales. We might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 

 

Reliance on government contracts for a portion of our sales could have material adverse effects on results of operations. 

 

Some of our sales are derived from customers whose principal sales are to the United States Government. If we experience significant reductions or delays in procurements of our products by the United States Government or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Generally, the United States Government and its contractors and subcontractors may terminate their contracts with us for cause or for convenience. We have in the past experienced one termination of a contract due to the termination of the underlying government contracts. All government contracts are also subject to price renegotiation in accordance with U.S. Government Renegotiation Act. By reference to such contracts, all of the purchase orders we receive that are related to government contracts are subject to these possible events. There is no guarantee that we will not experience contract terminations or price renegotiations of government contracts in the future. A significant portion of our sales are to military and aerospace markets, which are subject to the uncertainties of governmental appropriations and national defense policies and priorities. These sales are derived from direct and indirect business with the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, and other U.S. government agencies. From time to time, we have experienced declining defense-related sales, primarily as a result of contract award delays and reduced military program funding. Military-related business is and has been anticipated to increase; however, the actual timing and amount of an increase has been occurring at a rate that has been slower than expected. The effects of defense spending increases are difficult to estimate and subject to many sources of delay. Our prospects for additional defense-related sales may be adversely affected in a material manner by numerous events or actions outside our control. 

 

There may be unanticipated costs associated with increasing our capacity. 

 

We anticipate that future growth of our business could require increased manufacturing capacity. Expansion activities are subject to a number of risks, including: 

 

  • Unavailability or late delivery of the advanced, and often customized, equipment used in the production of our products;  

 

  • Delays in bringing new production equipment on-line;  

 

  • Delays in supplying products to our existing customers; and  

 

  • Unforeseen environmental or engineering problems relating to existing or new facilities.  

 

These and other risks may affect the ultimate cost and timing of our present or future expansion of our capacity. 

 

Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to attract and retain the services of our executive officers or other key management personnel. 

 

We could potentially lose the services of any of our senior management personnel at any time due to possible reasons that could include death, incapacity, calamity, military service, retirement, resignation or competing employers. Our execution of current plans could be adversely affected by such a loss. We may fail to attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel required to continue to operate our business successfully. Personnel with the necessary expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with proper skills is intense. Also, attrition in personnel can result from, among other things, changes related to acquisitions, as well as retirement or disability. We may not be able to retain existing key technical, sales, marketing and managerial employees or be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, particularly at such times in the future as we may need to do so to fill a key position. If we are unable to continue to retain existing executive officers or other key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 

 

9 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Failure to manage consolidation of operations effectively could adversely affect our ability to increase revenues and improve earnings. 

 

Our ability to successfully offer our products in the semiconductor market requires effective planning and management processes. Our Capacity Optimization Enhancement Program, with consolidations and realignments of operations, and expected future growth, may place a significant strain on our management systems and resources, including our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures which could negatively affect our results. In addition, we will need to continue to train and manage our workforce worldwide. 

 

We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders and cause us to incur debt or to assume contingent liabilities. 

 

As a part of our business strategy, we expect to review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, enhance our design capability or offer other growth opportunities. While we have no current agreements and no active negotiations underway with respect to any acquisitions, we may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. In the event of future acquisitions, we could: 

 

  • Use a significant portion of our available cash;  

 

  • Issue equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership;  

 

  • Incur substantial debt;  

 

  • Incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown;  

 

  • Incur impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangibles; and  

 

  • Incur large, immediate accounting write-offs.  

 

Such actions by us could impact our operating results and/or the price of our common stock. 

 

We have acquired and may acquire other companies and may be unable successfully to integrate such companies with existing operations. 

 

We have in the past acquired a number of businesses or companies, and additional product lines and assets. We may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies or product lines with existing operations, or if integration is more difficult or more costly than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from the acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with: 

 

  • Unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company;  

 

  • Conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations;  

 

  • Coordinating new product and process development;  

 

  • Hiring additional management and other critical personnel;  

 

  • Increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;  

 

  • Difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how;  

 

  • Other difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products;  

 

  • Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and  

 

  • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers.  

 

We have closed, combined, sold or disposed of certain subsidiaries or divisions, which in the past has reduced our sales volume. 

 

In October 2003, we announced the consolidation of Microsemi Corp. - Santa Ana, of Santa Ana, California (“Santa Ana”). Santa Ana whose manufacturing represented approximately 20% of our annual revenues in fiscal 2003, had approximately 380 employees and occupied 123,000 square feet in owned and leased facilities. The consolidation of Santa Ana is expected to result in minimal impact on revenues; however, our plans to minimize or eliminate any loss of revenues during consolidation may not be achieved if the consolidation is managed or executed ineffectively or inefficiently. 

 

10 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
We may make further specific determinations to consolidate, close or sell additional facilities, which could be announced at any time. Possible adverse consequences resulting from or related to such announcement may include various accounting charges, an inventory buildup in preparation for the transition of manufacturing, disposition costs, impairments of goodwill and possibly an immediate loss of revenues, and other items in addition to normal or attendant risks and uncertainties. We may be unsuccessful in any of our current or future efforts to consolidate our business into fewer facilities. The major challenge of transferring locations of our high-reliability component manufacturing is that first we must be finished qualifying the new facility appropriately. While we plan generally to retain all of our revenues and income of those operations by transferring the manufacturing elsewhere within Microsemi’s subsidiaries, our plans may change at any time based on reassessment of the alternatives and consequences. While we hope to benefit overall from increased gross margins and increased capacity utilization rates at remaining operations, the remaining operations will need to bear the corporate administrative and overhead costs, which are charges to income, that had been allocated to the discontinued business units. 

 

Our products may be found to be defective and we may not have sufficient liability insurance. 

 

One or more of our products may be found to be defective after we have already shipped the products in volume, requiring a product replacement or recall. We may also be subject to product returns that could impose substantial costs and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our aerospace (including aircraft), military, medical and satellite businesses in particular expose us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of high reliability electronic components for critical applications. Production of many of these products is sensitive to minute impurities, which can be introduced inadvertently in manufacture. Any production mistakes can result in large and unanticipated product returns, product liability and warranty liability. 

 

We may be subject to product liability claims with respect to our products. Our product liability insurance coverage may be insufficient to pay all such claims. Product liability insurance may become too costly for us or may become unavailable to us in the future. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance which would materially and adversely affect our financial position. 

 

Environmental liabilities could adversely impact our financial position. 

 

Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our semiconductor manufacturing processes. In addition, under some laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Also, we may be subject to common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject us to significant liabilities and could have material adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition. 

 

In the conduct of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from or within or through property. These risks may give rise to claims. Where third parties are responsible for contamination, the third parties may not have funds, or make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed under environmental laws and regulations. 

 

In Broomfield, Colorado, the owner of a property located adjacent to a manufacturing facility owned by a subsidiary of ours had notified the subsidiary and other parties, of a claim that contaminants migrated to his property, thereby diminishing its value. In August 1995, the subsidiary, together with Coors Porcelain Company, FMC Corporation and Siemens Microelectronics, Inc. (former owners of the manufacturing facility), agreed to settle the claim and to indemnify the owner of the adjacent property for remediation costs. Although TCE and other contaminants previously used by former owners at the facility are present in soil and groundwater on the subsidiary’s property, we vigorously contest any assertion that the subsidiary caused the contamination. In November 1998, we signed an agreement with the three former owners of this facility whereby they have 1) reimbursed us for $530,000 of past costs, 2) assumed responsibility for 90% of all future 

 

11 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
clean-up costs, and 3) promised to indemnify and protect us against any and all third-party claims relating to the contamination of the facility. An Integrated Corrective Action Plan was submitted to the State of Colorado. Sampling and management plans were prepared for the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment. State and local agencies in Colorado are reviewing current data and considering study and cleanup options. The most recent forecast estimated that the total project cost, up to the year 2020, would be approximately $5,300,000; accordingly, we recorded a one-time charge of $530,000 for this project in fiscal year 2003. There has not been any significant development since September 28, 2003. 

 

We are involved in various pending litigation matters, arising out of the normal conduct of our business, including from time to time litigation relating to commercial transactions, contracts, and environmental matters. In the opinion of management, the final outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

 

Some of our facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines. 

 

Our headquarters and two of our major operating facilities, and certain other critical business operations are located near earthquake fault lines. We presently do not have earthquake insurance. We could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. 

 

Delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of Microsemi that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares. 

 

Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make the acquisition more difficult by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. These provisions include: 

 

  • The Shareholder Rights Plan, which provides that an acquisition of 20% or more of the outstanding shares without our Board’s approval or ratification results in dilution to the acquiror;  

 

  • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a merger with a 15%-or-greater stockholder, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, until three years after that party became a 15%-or-greater stockholder; and  

 

  • The authorization in the certificate of incorporation of undesignated preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval in a manner designed to prevent or discourage a takeover or in a way that may dilute an investment in the Common Stock.  

 

In connection with our charter, we have a Shareholder Rights Plan, and each share of Common Stock, par value $0.20, entitles the holder to one redeemable and cancellable Right (not presently exercisable) to acquire a fractional share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, under the terms and conditions as set forth in a Shareholder Rights Agreement. The existence of the Rights may make more difficult or impracticable for hostile change of control of us, which therefore may affect the anticipated return on an investor’s investment in the Common Stock. 

 

We may have increasing difficulty to attract and hold outside Board members. 

 

The directors and management of publicly traded corporations are increasingly concerned with the extent of their personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims, as well as governmental and creditor claims which may be made against them in connection with their positions with publicly-held companies. Outside directors are becoming increasingly concerned with the availability of directors and officer’s liability insurance to pay on a timely basis the costs incurred in defending shareholder claims. Directors and officers liability insurance has recently become much more expensive and difficult to obtain than it had been. It has become increasingly more difficult to attract and retain qualified outside directors to serve on our Board. 

 

12 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
We may not make the sales that are indicated by order rates or our book-to-bill ratio and our book-to-bill ratio may become less meaningful. 

 

Lead times for the release of purchase orders depend upon the scheduling practices of individual customers, and delivery times of new or non-standard products can be affected by scheduling factors and other manufacturing considerations. The rate of booking new orders can vary significantly from month to month. Customers frequently change their delivery schedules or cancel orders. For these reasons, our book-to-bill ratio may not be an indication of future sales. 

 

The percentage of our business represented by space/satellite and defense products may decline. If this occurs, we anticipate that our book-to-bill ratio will become less meaningful. Our space/satellite business is characterized by long lead times; however, our other end markets tend to place orders with short lead times. Prospective investors should not place undue reliance on our book-to-bill ratios or changes in book-to-bill ratios. We determine bookings based on orders that are scheduled for delivery within 12 months. 

 

There may be some potential effects of system outages. 

 

Risks are presented by electrical or telecommunications outages, computer hacking or other general system failure. We rely heavily on our internal information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties to manage our operations efficiently and effectively. Any of these are subject to failure. System-wide or local failures that affect our information processing could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, insurance coverage for the risks described above may be unavailable. Our plans are to further upgrade and integrate our enterprise information systems, which may cause additional strains on personnel and system resources or potential system outages. 

 

There may be impairments of long-lived assets that would adversely affect Microsemi. 

 

We assess the impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows expected to result from their use. 

 

Our long-lived assets subject to this evaluation include property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets and others. 

 

We are required to make judgments and assumptions in identifying those events or changes in circumstances that may trigger impairment. Some of the factors we consider include: 

 

  • Significant decrease in the market value of an asset.  

 

  • Significant changes in the extent or manner for which the asset is being used or in its physical condition.  

 

  • A significant change, delay or departure in our business strategy related to the asset.  

 

  • Significant negative changes in the business climate, industry or economic conditions.  

 

  • Current period operating losses or negative cash flow combined with a history of similar losses or a forecast that indicates continuing losses associated with the use of an asset.  

 

  • Changes in projected future cash flows from long-lived assets.  

 

An evaluation under FAS 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” includes an analysis of estimated future undiscounted net cash flows that the assets are expected to generate over their remaining estimated useful lives. If the estimated future undiscounted net cash flows are insufficient to recover the carrying value of the assets over the remaining estimated useful lives, we will record an impairment loss in the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value. As a result of our analysis, we will record a charge when we determine that our amortizable intangible assets or other long-lived assets have been impaired. Any such impairment charge could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Major factors that influence our cash flow analysis are our estimates for future revenues and expenses associated with the use of the asset. Different estimates could have a significant impact on the results of our evaluation. 

 

13 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
Potential impairment of existing long-lived assets and of long-lived assets that we acquire in the future, could also affect our future results of operations and balances in a similar way. 

 

There may be goodwill impairments that would adversely affect Microsemi. 

 

All public companies were required to adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (“SFAS 142”), which changed the accounting for goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment-only approach. We adopted this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2003. Consequently, goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer being amortized, while those intangible assets with known useful lives have continued to be amortized over their respective useful lives. At least annually, we are required to reassess the carrying value of goodwill. If we determine that impairment exists, we will record a charge to earnings and a reduction in goodwill on our balance sheet. Whenever we determine that there has been an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives, we will record an impairment charge to earnings equal to the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over its then fair value. The identification of intangible assets and determination of the fair value and useful lives of goodwill and other intangible assets are subjective in nature and often involve the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The judgments made in determining the estimated useful lives assigned to each class of assets can significantly affect net income. 

 

At September 26, 2004 we had $3.3 million of goodwill; however, up to 100% of goodwill could be determined to be impaired during future evaluations required by FAS 142. 

 

Significant accounting policies have material effects on our calculations and estimations of amounts of major items in our financial statements. 

 

Our operating results may be affected to the extent actual results differ from accounting estimates. 

 

We base our critical accounting policies, including our policies regarding revenue recognition, reserves for returns, rebates, price protections, and bad debt and inventory valuation, on various estimates and judgments that we may make from time to time. 

 

We record reductions to revenues for estimated allowances such as returns, rebate and competitive pricing programs. If actual returns, rebate and/or pricing adjustments exceed estimates, additional reductions to revenues would result. 

 

Credit losses have been generally within our expectations and the established provisions; however, significant deterioration in the liquidity or financial position of any of our major customers or any group of our customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectibility of our accounts receivable and our future operating results. 

 

Historically, the net realizable value of our inventories has generally been within our estimates. However, if we are not able to meet our sales expectations, or if market conditions deteriorate significantly from our estimates, reductions in the net realizable value of our inventories could have a material adverse impact on future operating results. 

 

We use APB Opinion No. 25 to account for equity compensation, which may not fully reflect the economic consequences of granting options or other equity compensation. 

 

There is more than one way under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to account for the economic consequences of granting options or other equity compensation, and many accounting experts believe that charging earnings pursuant to FASB Statement 123 (“FASB 123”), as amended by FASB Statement 148 (“FAS 148”) would account better for the economic consequences of granting an option or other equity compensation than APB Opinion No. 25 (“APB 25”) would. We account for employee options for financial and accounting purposes under APB 25, which does not count the grant of stock or options as an expense in the way that FASB 123 would. The latter standard allows an option to charge to earnings the value arising from the grant of stock options. These compensation charges are not included in our financial statements, except 

 

14 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
for the disclosure required by FASB 123, as amended that we have set forth in Note 1. We have adopted FASB 123, as amended to the extent that it requires disclosure in the notes. 

 

The volatility of our stock price could affect the value of an investment in our stock and our future financial position. 

 

The market price of our stock has fluctuated widely. Between September 29, 2003 and September 26, 2004, the price of our common stock ranged between a low of $7.57 and a high of $16.36. The current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may not be able to sustain or increase the value of our common stock. Declines in the market price of our stock could adversely affect our ability to retain personnel with higher-priced stock incentives, to acquire businesses or assets in exchange for stock and/or to conduct future financing activities with the sale of stock. 

 

INTERNAL CONTROLS/SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 404 

 

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we undertake, in fiscal year 2005, a thorough re-examination of our internal control systems and procedures for financial reporting. We also are required to completely document and test those systems. Ultimately, our management will be responsible to report to our stockholders in the fiscal year 2005 annual report about the condition of our internal control systems, and our auditors will be requested to attest to that report. The independent public accounting firm that audits our financial statements will review our systems for weaknesses and comment on any material weaknesses. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since there is no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. 

 

We are uncertain about the total costs we will incur, although we know they will at least be substantial. There is great demand for consultants in the relevant area, and their fees reflect the short supply, which was caused by thousands of companies concurrently dealing with the requirement. (Section 404 applies to other public companies as well, although implementation dates vary from company to company.) The consultants will charge based on hours worked, and the actual work may materially exceed the estimates we have received from the consultants. Unforeseen challenges could be encountered that require additional work, as well as additional time. In order to meet our deadlines, we may incur material expenses and costs for overtime and additional consulting fees and charges. 

 

Our filing of our fiscal year 2005 annual report on a timely basis will depend upon our timely completion of these tasks and our independent public accounting firm’s timely completion of the review of our internal control systems. Our independent public accounting firm is responsible for auditing and reviewing managements’ reports of many other companies, and our deadlines could be difficult for them to meet. A late annual report could have material adverse effects on us, both legally and with respect to the opinions of the participants in the securities market. 

 

Any discovery of any material irremediable weakness in our internal control systems or procedures for financial reporting could have material adverse effects on us. It could cause our independent accountants to qualify or limit their attestation to management’s report or even limit or qualify their audit opinion, and either of those outcomes could have material adverse effects on us. 

 

PRODUCTS 

 

We are a leading designer, manufacture and marketer of high performance analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits and high reliability semiconductors. Our semiconductors manage and control or regulate power, protect against transient voltage spikes and transmit, receive and amplify signals. 

 

Our products include individual components as well as integrated circuit solutions that enhance customer designs by improving performance and reliability, battery optimization, reducing size or protecting circuits. The principal markets we serve include implantable medical, defense/aerospace and satellite, notebook computers and monitors, automotive and mobile connectivity applications. 

 

Our integrated circuits (“IC”) products offer light, sound and power management for desktop and mobile computing platforms as well as other power control applications. Power management generally refers to a 

 

15 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
class of standard linear integrated circuits (“SLICs”) that perform voltage regulation and reference in most electronic systems. The definition of power management has broadened in recent years to encompass other devices and modules, often application specific standard products (“ASSPs”), which address particular aspects of power management, such as audio or display related ICs. This business is composed of both a core platform of traditional SLICs, such as low dropout regulators (“LDOs”) and pulse width modulators (“PWMs”), and differentiated ASSPs such as backlight inverters, audio amplification ICs and small computer standard interface (“SCSI”) terminators. Over the last year our shipments of SLIC’s, motherboard LDO’s and PWM’s have become a less significant component, and our shipments of differentiated ASSP’s, dual LDO’s, switching regulators and power amplifiers have become a more significant component of our total sales. Our integrated circuit products are used in notebook computers, data storage, wireless LAN, LCD back lighting, LCD TV’s, LCD monitors, automobiles, telecommunications, test instruments, defense and aerospace equipment, high-quality sound reproduction and data transfer equipment. 

 

Our individual component semiconductor products include silicon rectifiers, zener diodes, low leakage and high voltage diodes, temperature compensated zener diodes, transistors, subminiature high power transient suppressor diodes and pin diodes used in MRI machines. We also manufacture semiconductors for commercial applications, such as automatic surge protectors, transient suppressor diodes used for telephone applications and switching diodes used in computer systems. Over the last year our shipments of traditional zener and voltage diodes products have become a less significant component and our shipments of transient suppressor diode products have become a more significant component of our total sales. A partial list of these products includes: implantable ICD and heart pacer switching, charging and transient shock protector diodes (where we believe we are the leading supplier in that market), low leakage diodes, transistors used in jet aircraft engines and high performance test equipment, high temperature diodes used in oil drilling sensing elements operating at 200 degrees centigrade, temperature compensated zener or rectifier diodes used in missile systems and power transistors. 

 

We currently serve a broad group of customers including: Seagate Technology (5%), Guidant Corporation (4%), The Boeing Co. (3%), Medtronic Incorporated (2%), Raytheon Co. (2%), Siemens AG (2%), Lockheed Martin Corporation (2%), BAE Systems (2%), and Astrium Space/France (2%). (The percentage amounts in this list represent the approximate percentage that each customer’s purchases represents of our total 2004 revenues.) 

 

MARKETING 

 

We serve the implantable medical, defense/aerospace and satellite, notebook computers and LCD monitors, automotive and mobile connectivity markets with high performance analog/mixed signal integrated circuits and power and signal high reliability individual component semiconductors. 

 

Our products are marketed through domestic electronic component sales representatives and our inside sales force to original equipment manufacturers. We also have industrial distributors to service our customers’ needs for standard catalog products. For fiscal year 2004, our domestic sales accounted for approximately 67% of our shipments, of which sales representatives and distributors accounted for approximately 28%. We have direct sales offices in the vicinities of metropolitan areas including Los Angeles, Garden Grove, Phoenix, Denver, Chicago, Lakeland (Florida), Minneapolis, Boston, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Ireland. Sales to foreign customers, made through our direct domestic sales force and 26 overseas sales representatives and distributors, accounted for approximately 33% of fiscal year 2004 sales. Domestic and foreign sales are classified based upon the destination of a shipment from our facilities. 

 

No one customer accounted for more than 5% of our revenues in fiscal year 2004. However, approximately 19% of our business is to customers whose principal sales are to the U.S. Government. All sales to the U.S. Government are subject to cancellation and price negotiation at the convenience of the government. 

 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

 

We believe that continuing timely development and introduction of new products are essential in maintaining our competitive position. We currently conduct most of our product development effort in-house. We also employ outside consultants to assist with product design. 

 

We spent approximately $23,651,000, $19,368,000 and $20,010,000 in fiscal years 2002, 2003, and 2004 respectively, for research and development, none of which was customer sponsored. 

 

16 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
The principal focus of our research and development activities has been to improve processes and to develop new products that support the growth of our businesses. 

 

The spending on research and development was principally to develop new higher-margin application-specific products, including, among others, Cold Cathode Fluorescence Light (“CCFL”) and Light Emitting Diode (“LED”) drivers, Class-D audio amplifiers and InGaP RF power amplifiers for wireless LAN applications. Our research and development expenses decreased in 2003 because we sold the assets of a design (research and development) center in Carlsbad, California that was developing new technologies for the implanted medical market. 

 

PATENTS, LICENSES, AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 

 

We rely to some extent upon confidential trade-secrets and to some extent upon patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, silicon foundries and other suppliers and vendors will be adequate to protect our interests. 

 

We currently own 53 U.S. patents with expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2023. In addition, we have 24 and 6 applications pending for new U.S. and foreign patents, respectively. It is our policy to seek patent protection for significant inventions that may be patented, though we may elect, in appropriate cases, not to seek patent protection even for significant inventions if other protection, such as maintaining the invention as a trade secret, is considered more advantageous or cost-effective. 

 

There can be no assurance that any patent will be issued on pending applications or that any patent issued will provide substantive protection for the technology or product covered by it. We believe that patent and mask work protection could grow in significance but presently is of less significance in our business than experience, innovation, and management skill. We have several patents related to one of our product lines that represented approximately 6% of fiscal year 2004 shipments. Shipments of products related to any of our other patents are individually less than 5% of shipments and are not considered material to shipments. 

 

We have registered several of our trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in foreign jurisdictions. 

 

Due to the many technological developments and the technical complexity of the semiconductor industry, it is possible that certain of our designs or processes may involve infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights held by others. From time to time, we have received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by our products on intellectual property rights of third parties. If any such infringements were alleged to exist, we might be obligated to seek a license from the holder of the rights and might have liability for past infringement. In the past, it has been common semiconductor industry practice for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. Although in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses, though the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing. However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain licenses as needed in all cases or that the terms of any license that may be offered will be acceptable to us. In those circumstances where an acceptable license is not available, we would need either to change the process or product so that it no longer infringes or else stop manufacturing the product or products involved in the infringement, which might be costly and adversely affect revenues. 

 

Please see the information that is set forth under the subheading “Failure to protect our proprietary technologies or maintain the right to use certain technologies may negatively affect our ability to compete.” within the section above entitled “IMPORTANT FACTORS RELATED TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS.” 

 

MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLIERS 

 

Our principal domestic manufacturing operations are located in Garden Grove, California; Broomfield, Colorado; Scottsdale, Arizona and Lawrence and Lowell, Massachusetts. Each operates its own wafer processing, assembly, testing and screening departments. In October 2003, we announced the consolidation of the operations of Microsemi Corp.—Santa Ana, of Santa Ana, California (“Santa Ana”), hi-rel products plant 

 

17 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
into other manufacturing plants. All manufacturing operations at the Santa Ana plant, except for wafer fabrication and sealing, have been moved to other locations. The wafer fabrication and seal operation are expected to be moved during the second quarter of fiscal year 2005. 

 

Our domestic plants manufacture and process all products, starting from purchased silicon wafers and piece parts. After wafer level fabrication, the silicon wafers are separated into individual die that are then assembled in packages and tested in accordance with our test procedures. A major portion of our semiconductor manufacturing effort takes place after the semiconductor is assembled. Parts are tested a number of times, visually screened and environmentally subjected to shock, vibration, “burn in” and electrical tests in order to prove and assure reliability. Certain subcontract suppliers provide packaging and testing for our products necessary to deliver finished products. We pay those suppliers for assembled or fully tested products meeting predetermined specifications. Manufacturing and processing operations are controlled in accordance with military as well as other rigid commercial and industrial specifications. 

 

In 2001, we commenced our Capacity Optimization Enhancement Program. The objectives of this program are to increase company-wide capacity utilization and operating efficiencies through consolidations and realignments of operations. We believe that this program will result in future cost savings from the elimination of redundant facilities and associated costs. 

 

In March 2001, we closed Microsemi PPC Inc. (“PPC”). In June 2001, we ceased the operations of Microsemi (H.K.) Ltd. (“Hong Kong”). 

 

In February 2002, we started the restructuring/consolidations of Microsemi Watertown Inc., of Watertown, Massachusetts (“Watertown”) and Microsemi CDI, Inc., of Melrose, Massachusetts (“MCDI”). We have completed the closure of our plant in Watertown, Massachusetts and the relocations of Watertown to other Microsemi plants in Lawrence and Lowell, Massachusetts; and Scottsdale, Arizona (“Scottsdale”) and the relocation of the operations of MCDI from Melrose to Lawrence, Massachusetts. The MCDI Melrose facility was closed. 

 

In June 2002, we completed the sale of the assets, including the real property, of Microsemi RF Products, Inc. (“RF”), of Montgomeryville, Pennsylvania to a subsidiary of Advanced Power Technology Inc., of Bend, Oregon. 

 

In September 2002, we sold the assets of the Carlsbad design center to AMI Semiconductor, Inc., of Pocatello, Idaho. 

 

In October 2002, we completed the sale of our Semcon Electronics Private Limited subsidiary, of Mumbai, India (“Semcon”). 

 

In October 2003, we announced the consolidation of Santa Ana into other manufacturing plants. Santa Ana represented approximately 20% of our annual shipments, occupied 123,000 square feet and had approximately 380 employees. The consolidation of Santa Ana is expected to result in minimal impact on shipments. Costs associated with the consolidation of Santa Ana are expected to range from $14 million to $18 million over the 12 to 18 month period, including $5.6 million of restructuring expenses and $6.8 million of cost included in cost of sales in fiscal year 2004. These actions are, however, expected to result in annual cost savings of $8 million to $12 million. 

 

In the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, we started to consolidate the remainder of our operations in Watertown, Massachusetts into other manufacturing plants. Costs associated with this final consolidation of Watertown are expected to be approximately $5.0 million, including approximately $1.3 million of restructuring expenses and $3.6 million of cost included in cost of sales in fiscal year 2004. We expect to record an additional $0.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2005 and expect to complete this consolidation in December 2004. 

 

We purchase silicon wafers, other semiconductor materials and packaging piece parts from domestic and foreign suppliers generally on long-term purchase commitments, which are cancelable on 30 to 90-days’ notice. With the exception of a certain type of proprietary electronic package, for which we paid a third party approximately $535,000 in fiscal year 2004, for our production of certain high reliability diodes, all materials are available from multiple sources. In the case of sole source items, we have never suffered production 

 

18 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
delays as a result of suppliers’ inability to supply the parts. We believe that we stock adequate supplies for all materials, based upon backlog, delivery lead-time and anticipated new business. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into cancelable purchase agreements with some of our major suppliers to supply products over periods of up to 18 months. 

 

We also purchase a portion of our finished wafers from several foundry sources. If a foundry were to terminate its relationship with us, or should our supply from a foundry be interrupted or terminated for any reason, such as a natural disaster or another unforeseen event, we may not have sufficient time to replace the supply of products manufactured by that foundry. 

 

We did not pay more than $5.2 million to any single supplier in fiscal year 2004. 

 

There can be no assurance that we will obtain sufficient supply of product from foundry or subcontract assembly sources to meet customer demand in the future. Obtaining sufficient foundry capacity is particularly difficult during periods of high demand for foundry services, and may become substantially more difficult and more expensive if our product requirements increase. In addition, because we must order products and build inventory substantially in advance of product shipments, there is a risk that we will forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories for particular products. This inventory risk is heightened because certain of our key customers place orders with short lead times. 

 

RAW MATERIALS 

 

Our manufacturing processes use certain key raw materials critical to our products. These include silicon wafers, certain chemicals and gases, ceramic and plastic packaging materials and various precious metals. We also rely on subcontractors to supply finished or semi-finished products, which are marketed through our various sales channels. We obtain raw materials and semi-finished or finished products from various sources, although the number of sources for any particular material or product may be limited. We feel that our current supply of essential materials is adequate; however, shortages have occurred from time to time and could occur again. Significant increases in demand, rapid product mix changes or natural disasters, or other events, could affect our ability to procure materials or goods. 

 

SEASONALITY 

 

Generally, we are affected by the seasonal trends of the semiconductor and related industries. The impacts of seasonality are to some extent dependent on product and market mix of products shipped. These impacts can change from time to time and are not predictable. Historically we have experienced lower sales in our first fiscal quarter, primarily due to holiday work schedules. 

 

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS 

 

The semiconductor industry, including the areas in which we do business, is highly competitive. We expect intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants. Competition is based on price, product performance, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. We compete in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may be better able to pursue acquisition candidates and to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. Some of our current major competitors are Motorola, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., Philips Electronics, ON Semiconductor, L.L.C., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, Micrel Incorporated, International Rectifier Corporation, Semtech Corporation, Linear Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., O2 Micro, Monolithic Power Systems, Inc., Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Diodes, Inc., Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and its subsidiary, Siliconix Incorporated. Some of our competitors in developing markets are Triquint Semiconductor, Inc., Mitel Corporation, RF Micro Devices, Inc., Conexant Systems, Inc., Anadigics, Inc. and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future or competitive pressures may harm our financial condition, operating results or cash flows. For more information, see the risk described as “The semiconductor business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our value” under the heading “Important Factors Related to Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks” above. 

 

19 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
SALES TO U.S. GOVERNMENT 

 

Our business with customers whose principal sales are to the U.S. Government or to subcontractors whose sales are to the U.S. Government was approximately 19% of total sales in fiscal year 2004. We, as a subcontractor, sell our products to higher-tier subcontractors or to prime contractors based upon purchase orders that usually do not contain all of the conditions included in the prime contract with the U.S. Government. However these sales are usually subject to termination and/or price renegotiations by virtue of their reference to a U.S. Government prime contract. Therefore, we believe that all of our product sales that ultimately are sold to the U.S. Government may be subject to termination, at the convenience of the U.S. Government or to price renegotiations under the Renegotiation Act. 

 

During the past sixteen years, we had one contract terminated for convenience. This termination was for a contract with an estimated $235,000 remaining. We were reimbursed approximately $80,000 for the costs incurred for work in process prior to the termination. We have never had to renegotiate our price under any government contract. There can be no assurance that we will not have contract termination or price renegotiation in the future. 

 

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS 

 

To date, our compliance with federal, state and local laws or regulations that have been enacted to regulate the environment has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. 

 

Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in semiconductor manufacturing processes. In addition, under some laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Also, we may be subject to common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject us to serious liabilities and could have material adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition. 

 

In the conduct of our manufacturing operations we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state or local laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from or within or through property. These risks may give rise to claims. We may be financially responsible for third parties, who are responsible for contamination, if they do not have funds, or make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed under environmental laws and regulations. 

 

In Broomfield, Colorado, the owner of a property located adjacent to a manufacturing facility owned by Microsemi Corp.—Colorado (“the Subsidiary”) had notified the Subsidiary and other parties of a claim that contaminants migrated to his property, thereby diminishing its value. In August 1995, the subsidiary, together with Coors Porcelain Company, FMC Corporation and Siemens Microelectronics, Inc. (former owners of the manufacturing facility), agreed to settle the claim and to indemnify the owner of the adjacent property for remediation costs. Although TCE and other contaminants previously used by former owners at the facility are present in soil and groundwater on the subsidiary’s property, we vigorously contest any assertion that the subsidiary caused the contamination. In November 1998, we signed an agreement with the three former owners of this facility whereby they have 1) reimbursed us for $530,000 of past costs, 2) assumed responsibility for 90% of all future clean-up costs, and 3) promised to indemnify and protect us against any and all third-party claims relating to the contamination of the facility. An Integrated Corrective Action Plan was submitted to the State of Colorado. Sampling and management plans were prepared for the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment. State and local agencies in Colorado are reviewing current data and considering study and cleanup options. The most recent forecast estimated that the total project cost, up to the year 2020, would be approximately $5,300,000; accordingly, we recorded a one-time charge of $530,000 for this project in fiscal year 2003. There has not been any significant development since September 28, 2003. 

 

20 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
EMPLOYEES 

 

On September 26, 2004, we employed 1,318 persons domestically including 84 in engineering, 1,072 in manufacturing, 65 in marketing and 97 in general management and administration. Additionally, 139 persons are employed in our Shanghai, China operations, 119 persons in our Ennis, Ireland operations, and 9 persons are employed as marketing personnel in Singapore and Taiwan. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have experienced no work stoppage and believe our employee relations are good. 

 
