Item 1. Business 


        The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in "Products" regarding the Company's expectation that DDR SDRAMs will be its primary product type in 2003, that demand for SDRAM is expected to continue for many consumer and communications applications, that the Company expects to begin shipping commercial volumes of 512 Meg DDR SDRAMs in 2003 and that the CMOS imaging market is expected to grow significantly, and in "Manufacturing" regarding the Company's transition to its .13µ and .11µ line-width process technology and the possible outcomes of TECH's financing efforts. The Company's actual results could differ materially from the Company's historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Certain Factors." All period references are to the Company's fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated.

General 

        Micron Technology, Inc., and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Company") principally design, develop, manufacture and market semiconductor products. Micron Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1978. The Company's executive offices are located at 8000 South Federal Way, Boise, Idaho 83716-9632 and its telephone number is (208) 368-4000. Information about the Company is available on the internet at www.micron.com. 

        On April 22, 2002, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Toshiba Corporation's ("Toshiba") DRAM operations at Dominion Semiconductor L.L.C. in Virginia. The total purchase price of $328 million included cash and 1.5 million shares of the Company's common stock. (See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Acquisitions—Toshiba Corporation DRAM Assets.") 

Products 

        The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets semiconductor products. The Company offers products with a wide variety of packaging and configuration options, architectures and performance characteristics to meet particular customer needs. 

        Dynamic Random Access Memory ("DRAM").    DRAM is the Company's primary semiconductor product. DRAMs are high density, low-cost-per-bit, random access memory components that store digital information and provide high-speed storage and retrieval of data. DRAMs are the most widely used semiconductor memory component in computer systems. DRAM sales represented approximately 95%, 87% and 94% of the Company's net sales in 2002, 2001 and 2000 respectively. 

        In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company transitioned from the 256 Meg synchronous DRAM ("SDRAM") to the 256 Meg Double Data Rate ("DDR") SDRAM as its primary product in production. DDR SDRAMs accounted for 21% of the Company's DRAM sales in 2002 and 1% of the Company's DRAM sales in 2001. Computer and networking manufacturers are transitioning from using SDRAM to DDR SDRAM as their primary DRAM products and the Company expects DDR SDRAMs to be its primary product type in 2003. The Company offers 128 Meg and 256 Meg DDR SDRAMs and SDRAMs in multiple configurations, speeds and package types. 

        SDRAMs were the Company's highest volume type of semiconductor memory sold by the Company throughout most of 2002. The Company's overall primary product sold in 2002 was the 128 Meg SDRAM, while the 256 Meg SDRAM was the Company's primary product in the third and fourth quarters of 2002. Although market demand has shifted from SDRAM to DDR devices for computing 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


and other applications, demand for SDRAM is expected to continue for many consumer applications such as cell phones and hand held devices and for communications equipment. 

        The Company is sampling 512 Meg and is developing 1 Gig DDR SDRAMs and expects to begin shipping commercial volumes of 512 Meg DDR SDRAMs in 2003. The Company continues to design and develop other DRAM products, including DDRII, DDRIII, reduced latency DRAM ("RLDRAM") and CellularRAM. The Company continues to provide key customers with legacy DRAM products such as extended data out ("EDO") and fast page mode ("FPM") and lower density products such as the 64 Meg and 16 Meg DRAM. 

        Static Random Access Memory ("SRAM").    SRAMs are semiconductor devices that perform memory functions similar to DRAMs. SRAMs utilize a more complex memory cell and do not require the memory array to be periodically refreshed. This simplifies system design for memory applications utilizing SRAM and allows SRAM to operate faster than DRAM, although SRAM has a higher cost-per-bit than DRAM. SRAMs are a key component in leading-edge telecommunications and networking applications where low latency is a critical system parameter. Sales of SRAM products represented approximately 2%, 4%, and 2% of the Company's net sales in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. 

        Flash Memory.    Flash products are non-volatile semiconductor devices that retain memory content when the power is turned off, and are electrically re-writeable. Flash is used in networking applications, workstations, servers, PCs, and handheld electronic devices such as digital cellular phones, digital cameras, and digital music players. Sales of Flash devices represented approximately 2%, 3% and 1% of the Company's net sales in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Currently, the Company's Flash offerings are comprised of NOR-based products. 

        Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor ("CMOS") Imaging Sensors.    Image sensors are semiconductor devices that capture images and process them into pictures or video for a variety of consumer and industrial applications. The Company's CMOS imaging sensors are used in products such as miniature cellular phone cameras, digital cameras, consumable pill cameras for medical use, automotive headlight dimming and motion tracking systems. CMOS imaging is a new market for the Company and is expected to grow significantly over the next several years. Sales for CMOS imaging sensors accounted for less than 1% of the Company's net sales in 2002. 

Manufacturing 

        The Company is a leading global manufacturer of semiconductor products with manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Italy, Japan, Singapore, and Scotland. The Company's manufacturing facilities operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. The Company develops leading edge manufacturing process technology primarily at its research and development wafer fabrication facility in Boise, Idaho. The Company's manufacturing process technology is then deployed to its various fabrication facilities, including its joint venture, TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ("TECH"). 

        The Company's process for manufacturing semiconductor products is complex, involving a number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication, assembly, burn-in and final test. Efficient production of semiconductor products requires utilization of advanced semiconductor manufacturing techniques and effective deployment of these techniques across multiple facilities. The primary determinants of manufacturing cost are die size, number of mask layers and yield of acceptable die produced on each wafer. Other factors that contribute to manufacturing costs are wafer size, number of fabrication steps, cost and sophistication of manufacturing equipment, equipment utilization, process complexity, cost of raw materials, labor productivity, package type and cleanliness of the manufacturing environment. The Company is continuously enhancing production processes, reducing the die size of existing products and 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


transitioning to higher density products. The Company expects to substantially complete the transition of its manufacturing operations to its .13µ line-width process technology in 2003 and to move a portion of its manufacturing operations to its .11µ line-width process technology in calendar 2003. 

        Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize dust and other yield-and quality-limiting contaminants. Despite stringent manufacturing controls, dust particles, equipment errors, minute impurities in materials, defects in photomasks and circuit design marginalities or other problems cause wafers to be scrapped or individual circuits to be nonfunctional. Success of the Company's manufacturing operations depends largely on minimizing defects and thereby maximizing yield of high-quality circuits. In this regard, the Company employs rigorous quality controls throughout the manufacturing, screening and testing processes. The Company is able to recover many nonstandard devices by testing and grading them to their highest level of functionality. 

        After fabrication, silicon wafers are separated into individual die. Functional die are sorted, connected to external leads and encapsulated in plastic packages. Each completed package is then inspected and tested. The Company also sells semiconductor products in die and wafer form. The Company tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing process, performs high temperature burn-in on finished products and conducts numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production flow. In addition, the Company uses its proprietary AMBYX™ line of intelligent test and burn-in systems to perform simultaneous circuit tests of all die during the burn-in process, capturing quality and reliability data and reducing testing time and cost. 

        A significant portion of the Company's memory products are assembled into memory modules for sale to customers. Memory modules consist of an array of memory components attached to printed circuit boards ("PCBs") that connect to computer systems or other electronic devices. Memory components are attached to PCBs in a soldering process performed by screen printing machines and high speed automated pick and place machines. Completed modules are tested by custom equipment and visual inspection. 

        The recently acquired wafer fabrication facility in Virginia presently manufactures memory devices utilizing Toshiba's 200mm wafer process, for purchase solely by Toshiba. The Company expects to transition its product and process technology into this facility over the next three to six months. 

        TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.    TECH is a memory manufacturing joint venture in Singapore among Micron Technology, Inc., the Singapore Economic Development Board, Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company. TECH's semiconductor manufacturing facilities use the Company's product and process technology. 

        Subject to specific terms and conditions, the Company has agreed to purchase all of the products manufactured by TECH. TECH supplied approximately 20%, 25% and 20% of the total megabits of memory produced by the Company in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company generally purchases semiconductor memory products from TECH at prices determined quarterly, based on a discount from average selling prices realized by the Company for the immediately preceding quarter. The Company performs assembly and test services on product manufactured by TECH. The Company also provides certain technology, engineering, and training to support TECH. All of these transactions with TECH are recognized as part of the net cost of products purchased from TECH. 

        TECH's existing credit facility expires in December 2003, and TECH is currently seeking external financing to replace its maturing loans and fund ongoing operations. If TECH's financing efforts are unsuccessful, the Company and other TECH shareholders may be requested to invest additional capital in TECH. If TECH is unable to obtain new financing or additional capital from its shareholders, it would likely have to discontinue its capital spending and may have to alter its operations. The Company's source of supply from TECH could be reduced or eliminated if TECH is unable to obtain required financing. The Company has pledged $50 million as cash collateral for TECH's fully-drawn 

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


line of credit. As of August 29, 2002, the Company had remaining unamortized costs of $77 million included in intangible assets relating to the supply arrangement to purchase product from TECH. In the event that the Company's supply of semiconductor products from TECH is reduced or eliminated, the Company may be required to write off part or all of these assets and the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected. 

Availability of Raw Materials 

        The Company requires raw materials that meet exacting standards. The Company generally has multiple sources of supply; however, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet the Company's standards. Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead frames and molding compound. In addition, any transportation problems could delay the Company's receipt of raw materials. Although raw materials shortages or transportation problems have not interrupted the Company's operations in the past, shortages may occur from time to time in the future. Also, lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past. If the Company's supply of raw materials is interrupted, or lead times are extended, results of operations could be adversely affected. 

Marketing and Customers 

        The Company's products are sold primarily through computing, networking and telecommunications, and imaging groups. Approximately 80% of the Company's sales of semiconductor products for 2002 were to the computer market. Sales to Dell Computer Corporation exceeded 10% of the Company's net sales in 2002, 2001 and 2000. Aggregate sales to Hewlett-Packard Company and Compaq Computer Corporation (which merged on May 3, 2002) exceeded 10% of the Company's net sales in 2002, 2001 and 2000. 

        The Company markets its semiconductor products primarily through its own direct sales force. The Company maintains inventory at locations in close proximity to certain key customers to facilitate rapid delivery of product shipments. The Company's products are also offered through independent sales representatives, distributors and its retail sales division, Crucial Technology. The Company's products are offered under the Micron, SpecTek and Crucial brand names, and under other private labels. The Company maintains semiconductor sales offices in North America, Europe, Asia and Japan. Sales representatives obtain orders subject to final acceptance by the Company and are compensated on a commission basis. The Company makes shipments against these orders directly to the customer. Distributors carry the Company's products in inventory and typically sell a variety of other semiconductor products, including competitors' products. The Company's products are also offered through Crucial Technology's website. 

        The semiconductor memory industry is characterized by volatile market conditions, declining average selling prices, rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and enhancements, difficult product transitions and relatively short product life cycles. In 2002, the semiconductor market experienced a transition from synchronous DRAMs to DDR SDRAMs as the most popular type of semiconductor memory. Technology transitions, resulting from changing market demand, can make it very difficult to optimize product mix. In addition, diversification of the DRAM market continues, with diverse memory needs being driven by the different requirements of desktop and notebook PC's, servers, workstations, handheld devices, and communications, industrial and other applications that demand specific memory solutions. Many of the Company's customers require a thorough review or "qualification" of semiconductor products, which may take several months. As the Company further diversifies its product lines and reduces the die sizes of existing memory products, more products become subject to qualification. There can be no assurance that new products will be qualified for purchase by existing or potential customers. 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Backlog 

        Volatile industry conditions make it difficult for many customers to enter into long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, new order volumes for the Company's semiconductor products fluctuate significantly. Orders are typically accepted with acknowledgment that the terms may be adjusted to reflect market conditions at the shipping date. Customers can change delivery schedules or cancel orders without significant penalty. For these reasons, the Company does not believe that its order backlog as of any particular date is a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period. 

Product Warranty 

        Because the design and production process for semiconductor products is highly complex, it is possible that the Company may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses. In accordance with industry practice, the Company generally provides a limited warranty that its semiconductor products are in compliance with Company specifications existing at the time of delivery. Under the Company's general terms and conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product during a stated warranty period is usually limited to repair or replacement of defective items or return of, or a credit with respect to, amounts paid for such items. Under certain circumstances the Company may provide more extensive limited warranty coverage and general legal principles may, under certain circumstances, impose upon the Company more extensive liability than that provided under the Company's general terms and conditions. 

Competition 

        The Company faces intense competition from a number of companies, some of which are large corporations or conglomerates (e.g. Samsung Semiconductor, Inc.) that may have greater resources or government support to withstand downturns in the semiconductor memory market, invest in technology and capitalize on growth opportunities. These competitors seek to improve yields, reduce die size and decrease mask levels in their product designs. These factors have significantly increased worldwide supply and put downward pressures on prices. 

Research and Development 

        To compete in the semiconductor memory industry, the Company must continue to develop technologically advanced products and processes. The Company believes that expansion of its semiconductor product offerings is necessary to meet expected market demand for specific memory solutions. The Company's total research and development expenses were $561 million, $490 million and $427 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. 

        Research and development expenses vary primarily with the number of development wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel costs. Product development costs are recorded as research and development expense. Development of a product is deemed complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability and is internally qualified for sale to customers. 

        The Company's DRAM process technology research and development efforts are focused on its .11µ and .095µ process technologies, which are designed to facilitate the Company's transition to next generation products. Additional process development work includes processes to support Flash, SRAM, CMOS imagers, Content Addressable Memory ("CAM"), embedded memory and new memory materials. In addition to its process technology efforts, the Company continues to emphasize product designs that utilize advanced process technology. Efforts towards the design and development of new products are concentrated on the Company's 512 Meg and 1 Gig DDR SDRAMs, DDRII and DDRIII SDRAMs, Flash and SRAM memory products, CellularRAM, embedded memory, CAM, CMOS 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


imagers and advanced DRAM technology products. The Company is establishing a pilot line to process limited volumes of 300-millimeter ("300mm") wafers. 

International Sales 

        Sales to customers outside the United States totaled $1.4 billion for 2002 and included approximately $544 million in sales to the Asia Pacific region, $461 million in sales to Europe and $264 million in sales to Japan. International sales totaled $1.8 billion for 2001 and $2.8 billion for 2000. (See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Geographic Information.") 

Patents and Licenses 

        The Company owns approximately 8,200 United States patents and 560 foreign patents. In addition, the Company has numerous United States and international patent applications pending. The Company's patents have terms expiring from 2002 through 2021. 

        From time to time, others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that the Company's products or processes infringe their product or process technology rights. In this regard, the Company is currently engaged in litigation with Rambus, Inc. ("Rambus") relating to certain of Rambus' patents and certain of the Company's claims and defenses. Lawsuits between Rambus and the Company are pending in the United States, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy. On August 28, 2000, the Company filed a declaratory judgment action against Rambus in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. On February 1, 2001, the Company amended its complaint. Pursuant to its amended complaint, the Company is seeking (1) relief under the federal antitrust laws for violations by Rambus of Section 2 of the Sherman Act; (2) a declaratory judgment that (a) certain Rambus patents are not infringed, are invalid and/or are unenforceable, (b) the Company has an implied license to Rambus' patents, and (c) Rambus is estopped from enforcing its patents against the Company because of its conduct in the Joint Electron Device Engineering Council standards setting body; and (3) damages and declaratory relief for Rambus' breach of contract, fraud, deceptive trade practices, negligent misrepresentation, and conduct requiring the application of equitable estoppel. On February 15, 2001, Rambus filed an Answer and Counterclaim. Rambus denies that the Company is entitled to relief and has alleged willful infringement by the Company of eight Rambus patents. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of these suits. A court determination that the Company's manufacturing processes or products infringe the product or process rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require the Company to make material changes to its products and/or manufacturing processes. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. 

        The Company has a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements. Some of these license agreements require the Company to make one time or periodic payments. The Company may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future. The Company is unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms. 

Employees 

        As of August 29, 2002, the Company had approximately 18,700 employees, including approximately 2,900 in the Asia Pacific region, 1,900 in Europe and 1,000 in Japan. The Company's employees in Italy are represented by labor organizations that have entered into national and local labor contracts with the Company. The Company's employment levels can vary depending on market conditions and the level of the Company's production, research and product and process development. Many of the Company's employees are highly skilled, and the Company's continued success depends in part upon its 

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


ability to attract and retain such employees. The loss of key Company personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. 

Environmental Compliance 

        Government regulations impose various environmental controls on discharges, emissions and solid wastes from the Company's manufacturing processes. In 2002, the Company's wafer fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001 certification. To continue certification, the Company met requirements in environmental policy, compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training, communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness and response, record keeping and management review. While the Company has not experienced any materially adverse effects on its operations from environmental or other government regulations, changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures, modification of operations or other compliance actions. 

Officers and Directors of the Registrant 

        Officers of the Company are appointed annually by the Board of Directors. Directors of the Company are elected annually by the shareholders of the Company. Any directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board serve until the next election by the shareholders. All officers and directors serve until their successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal. 

        As of August 29, 2002, the following executive officers and directors of the Company were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

Name

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Age
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Position
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Steven R. Appleton   42   Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 
Kipp A. Bedard   43   Vice President of Corporate Affairs 
Robert M. Donnelly   63   Vice President of Computing and Consumer Group 
Jan du Preez   45   Vice President of Networking and Communications Group 
D. Mark Durcan   41   Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Research and Development 
Robert J. Gove   48   Vice President of Imaging 
Jay L. Hawkins   42   Vice President of Operations 
Roderic W. Lewis   47   Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 
Michael W. Sadler   44   Vice President of Worldwide Sales 
Wilbur G. Stover, Jr.   49   Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer 
James W. Bagley   63   Director 
Robert A. Lothrop   76   Director 
Thomas T. Nicholson   66   Director 
Don J. Simplot   67   Director 
Gordon C. Smith   73   Director 
William P. Weber   62   Director 

        Steven R. Appleton joined the Company in February 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Appleton first became an officer of the Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions with the Company since that time. From April 1991 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on the Company's Board of Directors. Since September 1994, Mr. Appleton has served as the Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of 

8


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management from Boise State University. 

        Kipp A. Bedard joined the Company in November 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Bedard first became an officer of the Company in April 1990 and has served in various officer positions since that time. Since January 1994, Mr. Bedard has served as Vice President of Corporate Affairs for the Company. Mr. Bedard holds a BBA in Accounting from Boise State University. 

        Robert M. Donnelly joined the Company in September 1988 and has served in various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Donnelly first became an officer of the Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions since that time. Mr. Donnelly holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Louisville. 

        Jan du Preez joined the Company in June 2002 as Vice President of Networking and Communications Group. Mr. du Preez served as the President of Infineon Technologies North America Corporation from August 2000 until he joined the Company in June 2002. From October 1996 through July 2000, Mr. du Preez served as the Vice President of Memory Products Group for Infineon Technologies North America Corporation (formerly Siemens Semiconductors). Mr. du Preez holds Bachelors Degrees in Public Administration and Business Economics from the University of Pretoria and a Masters Degree in Commerce from Rand University. 

        D. Mark Durcan joined the Company in June 1984 and has served in various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries since that time. Mr. Durcan served as Vice President, Process Research and Development from June 1996 through June 1997, at which time he became Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Research and Development. Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MChE in Chemical Engineering from Rice University. 

        Robert J. Gove joined the Company in March 1999 as Senior Director of Engineering and has served in various positions with the Company. In March 2002, he was appointed Vice President of Imaging. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gove served as Vice President, Engineering, of Equator Technologies, Inc. Mr. Gove holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and an MS in Electrical Engineering and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. 

        Jay L. Hawkins joined the Company in March 1984 and has served in various manufacturing positions for the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Hawkins served as Vice President, Manufacturing Administration from February 1996 through June 1997, at which time he became Vice President of Operations. Mr. Hawkins holds a BBA in Marketing from Boise State University. 

        Roderic W. Lewis joined the Company in August 1991 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Lewis served as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for the Company from July 1996 until November 1996, at which time he became Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School of Law. 

        Michael W. Sadler joined the Company in September 1992 as a Regional Sales Manager and has held various sales and marketing positions since that time. Mr. Sadler first became an officer of the Company in July 1997 and has served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales since November 2001. Mr. Sadler holds a BS in Information Systems and an MBA from the University of Santa Clara. 

        Wilbur G. Stover, Jr. joined the Company in June 1989 and has served in various financial positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Since September 1994, Mr. Stover has served as the Company's 

9


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Stover holds a BA in Business Administration from Washington State University. 

        James W. Bagley became the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lam Research Corporation ("Lam"), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in August 1997, upon consummation of a merger of OnTrak Systems, Inc. into Lam. Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc. and Wind River Systems, Inc. He has served on the Company's Board of Directors since June 1997. Mr. Bagley holds a BS and MS in Electrical Engineering from Mississippi State University. 

        Robert A. Lothrop served as Senior Vice President of J.R. Simplot Company, an agribusiness company, from January 1986 until his retirement in January 1991. From August 1986 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Lothrop has served on the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Lothrop holds a BS in Engineering from the University of Idaho. 

        Thomas T. Nicholson has served as Vice President and a Director of Honda of Seattle and Toyota of Seattle since 1988. Mr. Nicholson served from 1982 to May 2000 as President, and since May 2000 as Vice President, of Mountain View Equipment Company. He has served on the Company's Board of Directors since May 1980. Mr. Nicholson holds a BS in Agriculture from the University of Idaho. 

        Don J. Simplot served as the President of Simplot Financial Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the J.R. Simplot Company, from February 1985 until January 1992. Since 1955, Mr. Simplot has served in various capacities with J.R. Simplot Company, including Director. He is a member of the Executive Committee of the J.R. Simplot Company. He is a member of the Board of Directors of IMPCO Technologies, Inc. Mr. Simplot has served on the Company's Board of Directors since February 1982. 

        Gordon C. Smith has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of G.C. Smith L.L.C., a holding company for ranch operations and other investments, since May 2000. Mr. Smith served in various management positions from July 1980 until May 1988 for the J.R. Simplot Company. From May 1988 until his retirement in March 1994, Mr. Smith served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of J.R. Simplot Company. Prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of J.R. Simplot Company, Mr. Smith served as its Chief Financial Officer for seven years. From September 1996 until September 1999, he served as President of Wesmar, Inc., a food service company. From February 1982 until February 1984 and since September 1990, he has served on the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Smith holds a BS in Accounting from Idaho State University. 

        William P. Weber served in various capacities with Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor manufacturing company, and its subsidiaries from 1962 until April 1998. From December 1986 until December 1993 he served as the President of Texas Instruments' worldwide semiconductor operations and from December 1993 until his retirement in April 1998, he served as Vice Chairman of Texas Instruments Incorporated. He has served on the Company's Board of Directors since July 1998. Mr. Weber holds a BS in Engineering from Lamar University and a MS in Engineering from Southern Methodist University. 

        There is no family relationship between any director or executive officer of the Company. 
