ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION MAY CONTAIN TREND INFORMATION AND OTHER
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE A NUMBER OF RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS MADE INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO, STATEMENTS
MADE IN: "SEMICONDUCTOR OPERATIONS - PRODUCTS AND SERVICES" REGARDING THE 128
MEG SDRAM AS THE COMPANY'S PRIMARY PRODUCT IN 2001, THE SHIPPING OF THE
COMPANY'S 256 MEG SDRAM, THE USE OF DDR SDRAMS IN HIGH-END SERVER,
WORKSTATIONS AND DESKTOP PC APPLICATIONS AND THE COMPANY'S PLANS TO INCREASE
THE NUMBER OF WAFERS DEDICATED TO SRAM AND FLASH PRODUCTS IN FUTURE PERIODS;
SEMICONDUCTOR OPERATIONS - MANUFACTURING" REGARDING MANUFACTURING DISRUPTIONS
AND REDUCED YIELDS AS A RESULT OF A CONVERSION TO 300MM WAFER PROCESSING;
"SEMICONDUCTOR OPERATIONS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT" REGARDING THE TRANSITION
TO .15(u) AND .13(u) LINE-WIDTH PROCESS TECHNOLOGY; AND "INTERNATIONAL SALES"
REGARDING THE GROWTH IN INTERNATIONAL SALES AS A RESULT OF INCREASED
WORLDWIDE OPERATIONS. THE COMPANY'S ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY
FROM THE COMPANY'S HISTORICAL RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND THOSE DISCUSSED IN
THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO
DIFFER MATERIALLY INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO, THOSE IDENTIFIED IN "ITEM
7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS - CERTAIN FACTORS." ALL PERIOD REFERENCES ARE TO THE COMPANY'S
FISCAL PERIODS ENDED AUGUST 31, 2000, SEPTEMBER 2, 1999, OR SEPTEMBER 3,
1998, UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED. ALL 1998 FINANCIAL DATA OF THE COMPANY HAS
BEEN RESTATED TO INCLUDE THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF RENDITION, INC., WHICH
WAS MERGED WITH THE COMPANY ON SEPTEMBER 11, 1998.

GENERAL

     Micron Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to
collectively as the "Company") principally design, develop, manufacture and
market semiconductor memory products and personal computer ("PC") systems.
Micron Technology, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries are hereinafter
referred to collectively as "MTI." The Company's PC operations are conducted by
Micron Electronics, Inc. ("MEI"), a 61% owned, publicly-traded subsidiary of
MTI.

     MTI, a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1978. MTI's executive
offices are located at 8000 South Federal Way, Boise, Idaho 83716-9632 and its
telephone number is (208) 368-4000. MEI's executive offices are located at 900
East Karcher Road, Nampa, Idaho 83687-3045 and its telephone number is (208)
898-3434.

     The Company is organized into two primary operating segments pursuant to
its principal product categories: "Semiconductor operations" and "PC
operations." Sales to external customers for Semiconductor operations and PC
operations constituted 86% and 14%, respectively, of the Company's total net
sales for 2000. Reference is made to the information regarding net sales,
operating profit and identifiable assets by reportable segments, under the
heading "Operating Segment and Geographic Information" in the "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements."


RECENT EVENTS

     On October 17, 2000, MTI and Kobe Steel, Ltd. ("Kobe Steel") announced that
they had entered into a non-binding term sheet providing for the purchase by MTI
of all of Kobe Steel's equity interest in KMT Semiconductor Limited ("KMT") for
approximately $125 million. MTI currently has a 25% equity interest in KMT. It
is anticipated that MTI will assume or repay all of KMT's debt, projected to
approximate $325 million at closing. As of September 30, 2000, KMT had total
assets approximating $750 million, including property, plant and equipment with
a carrying value of approximately $530 million.

     The term sheet anticipates that the parties will enter into a definitive
acquisition agreement, subject to standard terms and conditions, including
satisfactory due diligence and regulatory approvals. If these conditions are
met, the transaction is expected to close in March 2001. There can be no
assurance, however, that the pending transaction with Kobe Steel will be
consummated. The following discussion regarding the Company's business does not
reflect the proposed transaction with Kobe Steel.

                                       2
<PAGE>

SEMICONDUCTOR OPERATIONS

     PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     The Company's Semiconductor operations focus primarily on the design,
development and manufacture of leading edge semiconductor memory products. The
Company offers a wide variety of packaging and configuration options,
architectures and performance characteristics to meet particular customer needs.

         DYNAMIC RANDOM ACCESS MEMORY ("DRAM"). DRAM is the Company's primary
semiconductor memory product. DRAMs are high density, low-cost-per-bit, random
access memory components that store digital information in the form of bits and
provide high-speed storage and retrieval of data. DRAMs are the most widely used
semiconductor memory component in computer systems. DRAM sales (exclusive of
intersegment sales) represented approximately 80%, 64% and 42% of the Company's
total net sales in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

         Synchronous DRAMs ("SDRAMs") are memory components that operate faster
than standard DRAMs, due in part to the addition of a clock input that
synchronizes all operations and allows PC systems to transfer data at faster
rates, enabling subsystems to maintain pace with high speed CPUs and graphics
engines. SDRAMs are currently the most popular and highest volume type of
semiconductor memory and are used in computing (notebook and desktop PCs and
servers), networking, communications, and consumer applications. The Company's
primary product for 2000 was the 64 Meg SDRAM, available in multiple
configurations, speeds and package types. The Company transitioned to the 128
Meg SDRAM as its primary product in the fourth quarter of 2000 and expects that
it will be its primary product in 2001. The Company offers PC100 and PC133 64
Meg and 128 Meg SDRAMs. The Company expects to begin shipping 256 Meg SDRAMs in
2001.

         The Company continues to develop higher bandwidth DRAM products,
including Double Data Rate ("DDR") SDRAM and Rambus-Registered Trademark-
DRAM ("RDRAM-Registered Trademark-"). DDR SDRAM is a wide-bus memory solution
that leverages existing SDRAM technology by supporting data transfers on both
edges of each clock cycle effectively doubling the memory chip's data
throughput. DDR SDRAMs are currently being used in high-end graphics and
networking cards and the Company anticipates that they will be used in
high-end server, workstation and desktop PC applications. RDRAM is a
technology that uses a narrow-bus, high-speed memory interface and is
expected to be used in high-performance computer and consumer electronics
applications.

         The Company continues to produce lower bandwidth DRAM products such as
extended data out ("EDO") and fast page mode ("FPM") and lower density products
such as the 16 Meg DRAM to support major original equipment manufacturer ("OEM")
customer needs.

         STATIC RANDOM ACCESS MEMORY ("SRAM"). SRAMs are semiconductor
devices that perform memory functions similar to DRAMs, but do not require
memory cells to be electronically refreshed. This simplifies system design
for memory applications utilizing SRAM and allows SRAM to operate faster. The
Company produces SRAMs for the high-performance or high-bandwidth
applications that require a "buffer" or "cache" of high-speed memory to
provide data access and data routing quickly. SRAMs are a key component in
leading-edge telecommunications and networking applications where bandwidth
is a critical system parameter. The Company currently produces SyncBurst-TM-
SRAM and Zero Bus Turnaround ("ZBT-Registered Trademark-") SRAM products in
volume and recently began sampling DDR SRAM AND Quad Data Rate ("QDR-TM-")
SRAM products targeting the next generation of high performance computing,
networking and communications applications. Sales of SRAM products
represented approximately 2% of the Company's total net sales in 2000. The
Company has made substantial investments in the development of its SRAM
technology and plans to increase the number of wafers dedicated to production
of SRAM in future periods.

                                       3
<PAGE>


         FLASH MEMORY DEVICES ("FLASH"). Flash are non-volatile semiconductor
devices that retain memory content when the power is turned off, and are
electrically re-writeable. Flash is used in networking applications,
workstations, servers, PCs, and handheld electronic devices such as digital
cellular phones, digital cameras, and digital music players. The Company offers
a variety of Flash devices in various densities including Boot Block Flash
Memory, even-sectored Flash Memory, Compact Flash Cards, and Flash for the
wireless cell phone market. Sales of Flash devices represented approximately 1%
of the Company's total net sales in 2000. The Company has made substantial
investments in the development of its Flash technology and plans to increase the
number of wafers dedicated to production of Flash in future periods.


     MANUFACTURING

     The Company is a leading global manufacturer of semiconductor memory
products with manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Italy,
Singapore, Japan and United Kingdom. The Company's manufacturing facilities all
operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. The Company develops leading-edge
manufacturing process technology at its research and development wafer
fabrication facility in Boise, Idaho, which is then deployed to its
manufacturing fabs in Boise, Avezzano, Italy and its joint venture fabs, TECH
Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ("TECH") and KMT Semiconductor Limited
("KMT"). (TECH and KMT are collectively referred to herein as the "JVs.")

     The Company's process for manufacturing semiconductor products is complex,
involving a number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication, assembly,
burn-in and final test. Efficient production of semiconductor memory products
requires utilization of advanced semiconductor manufacturing techniques and
effective deployment of these techniques across multiple facilities. The
Company's per unit product costs are a function of manufacturing costs and costs
of product purchased from the JVs under supply agreements. Costs of products
purchased from the JVs are based in part on discounts from average selling
prices realized by the Company and are subject to significant fluctuations. The
primary determinants of manufacturing cost are die size (since the potential
number of good die per wafer increases with reduced die size), number of mask
layers, the yield of acceptable die produced on each wafer and labor
productivity. Other factors that contribute to manufacturing costs are wafer
size, number of fabrication steps, cost and sophistication of manufacturing
equipment, equipment utilization, process complexity, cost of raw materials,
labor productivity, package type and cleanliness. The Company is continuously
enhancing production processes, reducing the die size of existing products and
increasing capacity utilization throughout worldwide operations. The Company has
begun work on a 300-millimeter ("300mm") pilot line and is evaluating plans to
perform large-scale manufacturing using 300mm wafer processing. The Company may
experience disruptions in its manufacturing process and reduced yields as a
result of a conversion to 300mm wafer processing.

     Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to
minimize dust and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. Despite
stringent manufacturing controls, dust particles, equipment errors, minute
impurities in materials, defects in photomasks or other problems may cause a
substantial percentage of wafers to be scrapped or individual circuits to be
nonfunctional. Success of the Company's manufacturing operations depends largely
on minimizing defects and thereby maximizing yield of high-quality circuits. In
this regard, the Company employs rigorous quality controls throughout the
manufacturing, screening and testing processes. The Company is able to recover
many nonstandard devices by testing and grading them to their highest level of
functionality.

      After fabrication, each silicon wafer is separated into individual die.
Functional die are connected to external leads by extremely fine wire and
assembled into plastic packages. Each completed package is then inspected,
sealed and tested. The assembly process uses high-speed automatic systems such
as wire bonders, as well as semi-automatic plastic encapsulation and solder
systems. The Company tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing
process, performs high temperature burn-in on finished products and conducts
numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production flow. In
addition, the Company uses its proprietary AMBYX line of intelligent test and
burn-in systems to perform simultaneous circuit tests of all die during the
burn-in process, capturing quality and reliability data and reducing testing
time and cost. After test, the Company assembles the majority of its memory
products into memory modules before sale to customers. Memory modules consist of
an array of memory components attached to Company designed printed circuit
boards ("PCBs") that connect to computer systems or other electronic devices.
Memory components are attached to PCBs in a soldering process performed by
screen printing machines and high speed automated pick and place machines.
Completed modules are extensively tested by custom equipment and visual
inspection.

                                       4
<PAGE>


     Substantially all of the Company's manufacturing operations are dependent
on electronic information systems. These information systems enable the Company
to maximize the efficiency of its manufacturing operations by controlling
equipment and processes, tracking key operational and engineering metrics,
providing decision support and measuring overall operating results. Hardware or
software failures in the information systems could disrupt the Company's
manufacturing operations.

     JOINT VENTURES. MTI participates in two joint ventures: TECH and KMT. TECH,
which operates in Singapore, is a memory manufacturing joint venture among MTI,
the Singapore Economic Development Board, Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard
Company. KMT, which operates in Japan, is a memory manufacturing joint venture
between MTI and Kobe Steel, Ltd. The JVs' semiconductor manufacturing facilities
use the Company's product and process technology. For purposes of the discussion
herein, production from the JVs is treated as production from the Company's
Semiconductor operations.

     The JVs supplied in excess of 35% of the total megabits of memory produced
by the Company in 2000. MTI has agreed to purchase all of the production from
the JVs, subject to specific terms and conditions. The Company generally
purchases product from the JVs at prices that are determined quarterly and based
in part on discounts from MTI's average selling prices. Certain joint venture
partners have rights to buy a portion of TECH's output from MTI. MTI provides
technology, engineering support, training and information system support to the
JVs and performs assembly and test services on all JV products.

     On October 17, 2000, MTI and Kobe Steel announced that they had entered
into a non-binding term sheet providing for the purchase by MTI of all of Kobe
Steel's equity interest in KMT. See "Business - Recent Events."


     AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

     The Company's semiconductor operations require raw materials that meet
exacting standards. The Company generally has multiple sources of supply,
however, there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering
certain raw materials that meet our standards. Various factors, including
increases in worldwide semiconductor manufacturing, could reduce the
availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals,
gases, lead frames and molding compound. The Company's semiconductor operations
have not been interrupted in the past by shortages of raw materials.
Nevertheless, shortages may occur from time to time in the future. Also, lead
times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past. If the
Company's supply of raw materials is interrupted or, lead times are extended,
results of operations could be adversely affected.


     MARKETING AND CUSTOMERS

     The Company's semiconductor memory products are sold primarily to the PC,
telecommunications and networking hardware markets. The Company supplies several
major PC original equipment manufacturers with more than 30% of their memory
requirements. Sales to Dell Computer Corporation and Compaq Computer Corporation
both exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales for 2000. No customer individually
accounted for 10% of consolidated net sales for 1999 and 1998.

     The Company markets its semiconductor memory products primarily through its
own direct sales force. The Company also sells products through independent
sales representatives, distributors and its retail sales division, Crucial
Technology. The Company maintains semiconductor sales offices in North America,
Asia and Europe. Sales representatives are compensated on a commission basis and
obtain orders subject to final acceptance by the Company. The Company makes
shipments against these orders directly to the customer. Distributors carry the
Company's products in inventory and typically sell a variety of other
semiconductor products, including competitors' products. Semiconductor memory
products sold through distributors approximated 14%, 11% and 11% of
Semiconductor operations' net sales in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
Company also markets application specific DRAM under the SpecTek brand name.

                                       5
<PAGE>

     The semiconductor memory industry is characterized by rapid technological
change, relatively short product life cycles, frequent product introductions and
enhancements, difficult product transitions and volatile market conditions. In
the past, the semiconductor industry and the DRAM market in particular, have
been highly cyclical. DRAMs have historically been considered commodity
products, however, the DRAM market is currently in the process of segmenting,
with diverse memory needs being driven by the different requirements of desktop
and notebook PC's, servers, workstations, hand-helds, and communications,
industrial and other applications that demand specific memory solutions. Many of
the Company's customers require a thorough review or "qualification" of
semiconductor memory products, which may take several months. As the Company
further diversifies its product lines and reduces the die sizes of existing
memory products, more products become subject to qualification. There can be no
assurance that new products will be qualified for purchase by existing or
potential customers.

     BACKLOG

     Cyclical industry conditions make it difficult for many customers to enter
into long-term, fixed-price contracts and, accordingly, new order volumes for
the Company's semiconductor memory products fluctuate significantly. Orders are
typically accepted with acknowledgment that the terms may be adjusted to reflect
market conditions at the delivery date. Customers can change delivery schedules
or cancel orders without significant penalty. For the foregoing reasons, the
Company does not believe that its backlog of semiconductor memory products as of
any particular date is a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding
period.

     PRODUCT WARRANTY

     Because the design and production process for semiconductor memory is
highly complex, it is possible that we may produce products that do not comply
with customer specifications, contain defects, or are otherwise incompatible
with end uses. To mitigate these issues, the Company generally provides a
limited warranty that its semiconductor memory products are in compliance with
specifications existing at the time of delivery. Under the Company's sales
confirmation orders, liability for a stated warranty period is usually limited
to replacement of defective items or return of amounts paid.

     COMPETITION

     The Company's Semiconductor operations experience intense competition from
a number of companies, including Hitachi, Ltd., Hyundai Electronics Industries
Co., Ltd., Infineon Technologies AG, NEC Corporation and Samsung Semiconductor,
Inc. Some of the Company's competitors are large corporations or conglomerates,
which may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the semiconductor
memory market, invest in new technology and capitalize on growth opportunities.
Like the Company, these competitors aggressively seek to improve yields, reduce
die size and decrease mask levels in their product designs. These improvements
could significantly increase worldwide supply leading to downward pressures on
prices.

     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Substantially all of the Company's research and development efforts relate
to its Semiconductor operations. To compete in the semiconductor memory
industry, the Company must continue to develop technologically advanced products
and processes. The Company believes that expansion of semiconductor product
offerings is necessary to meet expected market demand for specific memory
solutions. The Company's total research and development expenditures were $427
million, $322 million and $286 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     Research and development expenses relating to the Company's
Semiconductor operations vary primarily with personnel costs, the number of
development wafers processed and the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to
new product and process development. Process technology research and
development efforts are focused on .15u and .13u line-width process
technologies, which will enable the Company to transition to next generation
products. Application of advanced process technology currently is
concentrated on design of shrink versions of the Company's 128 Meg SDRAMs and
on design and development of the Company's Flash, 256 Meg and 512 Meg

                                       6
<PAGE>

SDRAMs, DDR SDRAM and SRAM memory products. Other research and development
efforts are currently devoted to the design and development of embedded memory,
RDRAM, and advanced DRAM technology ("ADT") products. The Company is also
developing technology which enables the use of standard memory products and new
memory applications.

     Substantially all of the Company's operations use .18(u) line-width
process technology. The Company began its transition to .15(u) line-width
process technology in 2000 for its primary products and expects to continue
its transition in 2001. The Company anticipates that it will move to .13(u)
line-width process technology in the next few years as needed for the
development of future generation semiconductor products.

PC OPERATIONS

     PC SYSTEMS

     The PC industry is highly competitive and has been characterized by intense
pricing pressure, generally low gross margin percentages, rapid technological
advances in hardware and software, frequent introduction of new products and
declining component costs. The Company's PC operations develop, market,
manufacture, sell and support a wide range of desktop and notebook PC systems
and network servers under the Micron and NetFrame brand names and sell, resell
and support a variety of additional peripherals, software and services. The
Company's PC systems are generally assembled to order ("ATO") with differing
processing, memory and storage configurations as well as various operating
systems and application software. Net sales of PC systems (exclusive of
intersegment sales) represented 14%, 33% and 49% of the Company's total net
sales for 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

     The Company markets its PC systems principally through two channels:
"customer-direct" and "retail-direct." In the customer-direct channel the
Company markets its products directly to customers through advertising,
direct mail, telephone sales, field sales representatives and the Company's
web site. Direct sales orders are received primarily via telephone,
facsimile, the Internet and through the Company's direct sales force.
Customers generally order systems configured with varying feature sets
differentiated by microprocessor speed, hard drive capacity, amount of
memory, monitor size and resolution and bundled software, as well as other
features. Starting in March 2000, the Company also began to market PC systems
through the retail-direct channel, wherein the Company has entered into
agreements with a number of retailers including BestBuy, Outpost.com and
Staples, to install and maintain "direct-to-the-manufacturer" kiosks at their
retail stores. The Company operates its retail-direct program under the
Velocity Net Direct brand name. Additionally, the Company sells PC systems
through strategic relationships with third parties having large government
procurement contracts. Pricing and terms for such procurement contracts are
generally subject to re-negotiation or termination by third parties and
governmental entities.

     The Company's PC manufacturing process is designed to provide
custom-configured products to its customers and includes assembling components,
loading software and testing each system prior to shipment. Most components are
held by suppliers in a third party logistics providers' warehouse and delivered
as order flow demands. The Company's ATO manufacturing process promotes rapid
inventory turnover and reduced inventory levels, while allowing the Company to
efficiently manufacture customized computer systems. Generally, the Company
assembles desktop PC systems and servers in its facilities. The Company defines
the feature sets for its notebook PC systems which are assembled by suppliers
and then tested according to the Company's standards. Certain of the components,
subassemblies and software used by the Company are available only from a limited
number of suppliers. In particular, the Company relies on two vendors for its
supply of both the microprocessors used in its PC systems and the assembly of
notebook computers. The Company has experienced shortages of these products in
the past. Any interruption in the supply of the components, subassemblies and
software used in the Company's PC systems, could adversely affect the results of
operations.

     Consumer customers may return PC products within 15 days of shipment for a
full refund of the purchase price and commercial and government customers can
return products within 30 days for a full refund. The Company sells desktop and
notebook PC systems and servers with a limited warranty, consisting of a
five-year limited warranty on the microprocessor and main memory, a three-year
limited warranty on the hardware and one year on-site service provided by a
third party. The PC operations limited warranty covers repair or replacement for
defects in workmanship or materials.

                                       7
<PAGE>

     e-SERVICES

     Since the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company's PC operations have provided
web-hosting, software application, data center/co-location and Internet access
services through its HostPro subsidiary. Net sales of e-Services represented
less than 1% of the Company's consolidated net sales for 2000. The Company
markets its e-Services offerings through its HostPro web site and print, radio
and on-line advertising. The Company's e-Services operations face intense
competition from a large number of companies.

INTERNATIONAL SALES

     International sales totaled $2.8 billion for 2000 and included
approximately $1.2 billion in sales to Europe and $1.1 billion in sales to Asia
Pacific. International sales approximated $1.1 billion for 1999 and $599 million
for 1998. The Company expects international sales to continue to increase as a
result of growth in its worldwide operations.

PATENTS AND LICENSES

     As of August 31, 2000, the Company owned approximately 4,250 United States
patents and 373 foreign patents. In addition, the Company has numerous United
States and international patent applications pending.

     The Company has a number of cross-license agreements with others. The
agreements may require one-time and/or periodic royalty payments and expire at
various times. One-time payments are typically capitalized and amortized over
the shorter of the estimated useful life of the technology, the patent term or
the term of the agreement. In the future, it may be necessary or advantageous
for the Company to obtain additional patent licenses or to renew existing
license agreements. The Company is unable to predict whether these license
agreements can be obtained or renewed on terms acceptable to the Company. An
adverse determination that the Company's manufacturing processes or products
infringed on the product or process rights held by others could subject the
Company to significant liabilities or require material changes in production
processes or products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on
the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.

     The Company and Rambus, Inc. ("Rambus") are engaged in litigation relating
to certain of Rambus' patents. Lawsuits between the Company and Rambus have been
filed in the United States, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy. (See
"Item 3. Legal Proceedings" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Certain Factors.")

EMPLOYEES

     As of August 31, 2000, the Company had approximately 18,800 full-time
employees, including approximately 15,900 in semiconductor operations and 2,900
in PC operations. The Company has approximately 3,000 and 1,800 employees in
Asia and Europe, respectively. The Company's Italian employees are represented
by labor organizations that have entered into national and local labor contracts
with the Company. The Company's employment levels can vary depending on market
conditions and the level of the Company's production, research and product and
process development and administrative support activities. Many of the Company's
employees are highly skilled and the Company's continued success depends in part
upon its ability to attract and retain such employees. The loss of key Company
personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.

                                       8
<PAGE>

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

     Government regulations impose various environmental controls on discharges,
emissions and solid wastes from the Company's manufacturing processes. The
Company believes that its activities conform to present environmental
regulations. In 2000, MTI continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001
certification as confirmed by a successful independent surveillance audit. To
continue certification, MTI met requirements in environmental policy,
compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training,
communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness and
response, record keeping and management review. While the Company has not
experienced any materially adverse effects on its operations from environmental
or other government regulations, changes in the regulations could necessitate
additional capital expenditures, modification of operations or other compliance
actions. Additionally, the extensive process required to obtain permits for
expansion of facilities may affect how quickly the Company can respond to
increases in market demand.

                                       9
<PAGE>

OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Officers of the Company are appointed annually by the Board of Directors.
Directors of the Company are elected annually by the shareholders of the
Company. Any directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on
the Board serve until the next election by the shareholders. All officers and
directors serve until their successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified,
except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal.

     As of October 2, 2000, the following executive officers and directors of
the Company were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name                                  Age     Position
----                                  ---     --------
<S>                                  <C>      <C>
Steven R. Appleton.................    40     Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
Kipp A. Bedard.....................    41     Vice President of Corporate Affairs
Robert M. Donnelly.................    61     Vice President of Memory Products
D. Mark Durcan.....................    39     Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of
                                              Research & Development
Jay L. Hawkins.....................    40     Vice President of Operations
Joel J. Kocher.....................    44     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Micron
                                              Electronics, Inc.
Roderic W. Lewis...................    45     Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel
                                              and Corporate Secretary
Michael W. Sadler..................    42     Vice President of Sales and Marketing
Wilbur G. Stover, Jr. .............    47     Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial
                                              Officer
James W. Bagley....................    61     Director
Robert A. Lothrop..................    74     Director
Thomas T. Nicholson................    64     Director
Don J. Simplot.....................    65     Director
Gordon C. Smith....................    71     Director
William P. Weber...................    60     Director
</TABLE>

     STEVEN R. APPLETON joined MTI in February 1983 and has served in various
capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Appleton first became an
officer of MTI in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions,
including overseeing the Company's semiconductor operations as President, Chief
Executive Officer and Director of Micron Semiconductor, Inc. ("MSI"), then a
wholly-owned subsidiary of MTI, from July 1992 to November 1994. From April 1991
until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on MTI's Board of
Directors. Since September 1994, Mr. Appleton has served as the Chief Executive
Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of MTI. Mr. Appleton
also serves as a Director of MEI. Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management
from Boise State University.

     KIPP A. BEDARD joined MTI in November 1983 and has served in various
capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Bedard first became an
officer of MTI in April 1990 and has served in various officer positions,
including Vice President, Investor Relations, of MSI from July 1992 to January
1994. Since January 1994, Mr. Bedard has served as Vice President of Corporate
Affairs for MTI. Mr. Bedard holds a BBA in Accounting from Boise State
University.

     ROBERT M. DONNELLY joined MTI in September 1988 and has served in various
technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Donnelly first
became an officer of MTI in August 1989 and has served in various officer
positions, including Vice President, SRAM Products Group of MSI from July 1992
to November 1994. Mr. Donnelly was named Vice President, SRAM Products Group for
MTI in November 1994. Mr. Donnelly served as Vice President, SRAM Design and
Product Engineering for MTI from October 1995 through November 1996, at which
time he became Vice President of Memory Products. Mr. Donnelly holds a BS in
Electrical Engineering from the University of Louisville.

     D. MARK DURCAN joined MTI in 1984 and has served in various technical
positions with the Company and its subsidiaries, including Process Integration
Manager from December 1989 until May 1995 and Manager of Process Research and
Development from May 1995 until June 1996. Mr. Durcan served as Vice President,
Process

                                       10
<PAGE>

Research and Development from June 1996 through June 1997, at which time he
became Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Research & Development. Mr.
Durcan holds a BS and MS in Chemical Engineering from Rice University.

     JAY L. HAWKINS joined MTI in March 1984 and has served in various
manufacturing positions for the Company and its subsidiaries, including Director
of Manufacturing for MSI from July 1992 to November 1994 and Director of
Manufacturing for MTI from November 1994 to February 1996. Mr. Hawkins served as
Vice President, Manufacturing Administration from February 1996 through June
1997, at which time he became Vice President of Operations. Mr. Hawkins holds a
BBA in Marketing from Boise State University.

     JOEL J. KOCHER joined MEI in January 1998. Prior to joining MEI, Mr. Kocher
was employed by Dell Computer Corporation from 1987 until September 1994, most
recently serving as President of Worldwide Marketing, Sales and Service. In
October 1994, Mr. Kocher joined Artistsoft, where he initially served as
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and subsequently served
from October 1995 until December 1996 as President, Chief Operating Officer and
Director of Artistsoft. From December 1996 until August 1997, Mr. Kocher served
as President and Chief Operating Officer at Power Computing Corporation. Since
January 1998, Mr. Kocher has served as the President of MEI and since June 1998
has also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of MEI. Mr.
Kocher holds a BBA in Marketing from the University of Florida.

     RODERIC W. LEWIS joined MTI in 1991 and has served in various capacities
with the Company and its subsidiaries, including Assistant General Counsel for
MTI from August 1993 to April 1995. From April 1995 to July 1996, Mr. Lewis
served as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for MEI. Mr.
Lewis served as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for MTI
from July 1996 until November 1996, at which time he became Vice President of
Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Lewis holds a BA in
Economics and Asian Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia
University School of Law.

     MICHAEL W. SADLER is Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Micron
Technology, Inc. Mr. Sadler joined Micron Technology in 1992 as a Regional Sales
Manager and has since held a series of increasingly responsible positions
including Major Accounts Sales Manager, National Sales Manager, Director of
Memory Sales, and Vice President of Sales. He was appointed to his current
position in January 2000. Mr. Sadler holds a BS in Information Systems and an
MBA from the University of Santa Clara.

     WILBUR G. STOVER, JR. joined MTI in June 1989 and has served in various
financial positions with the Company and its subsidiaries, including Vice
President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of MSI from August 1992 to
September 1994. Since September 1994, Mr. Stover has served as MTI's Vice
President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. From October 1994 through
September 1996, Mr. Stover served on MTI's Board of Directors. Mr. Stover holds
a BA in Business Administration from Washington State University.

     JAMES W. BAGLEY became the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lam
Research Corporation ("Lam"), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing
equipment, in August 1997, upon consummation of a merger of OnTrak Systems, Inc.
("OnTrak"), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, into Lam. From
June 1996 to August 1997, Mr. Bagley served as the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of OnTrak. Prior to joining OnTrak, Mr. Bagley was employed by Applied
Materials, Inc., also a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, for
15 years in various senior management positions, including Chief Operating
Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board. Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board of
Directors of Teradyne, Inc. He has served on MTI's Board of Directors since June
1997. Mr. Bagley holds a BS in Electrical Engineering and MS in Electrical
Engineering from Mississippi State University.

     ROBERT A. LOTHROP served as Senior Vice President of J.R. Simplot Company,
an agribusiness company, from January 1986 until his retirement in January 1991.
From August 1986 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Lothrop has served on
the Board of Directors of MTI. From July 1992 until November 1994, he served as
a Director of MSI. Mr. Lothrop also serves as a Director of MEI. Mr. Lothrop
holds a BS in Engineering from the University of Idaho.

     THOMAS T. NICHOLSON has served as Vice President and a Director of Honda of
Seattle and Toyota of Seattle since 1988. Mr. Nicholson has also served since
May 2000 as Vice President of Mountain View Equipment

                                       11
<PAGE>


Company and from 1982 to May 2000 served as President of Mountain View Equipment
Company. He has served on MTI's Board of Directors since May 1980. Mr. Nicholson
holds a BS in Agriculture from the University of Idaho.

     DON J. SIMPLOT served as the President of Simplot Financial Corporation, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the J.R. Simplot Company, from February 1985 until
January 1992. Since 1955, Mr. Simplot has served in various capacities with J.R.
Simplot Company and presently serves as a Corporate Vice President. Since April
1994, he has also served as a member of the Office of the Chairman of J.R.
Simplot Company. Mr. Simplot is a member of the Board of Directors of IMPCO
Technologies, Inc. He has served on MTI's Board of Directors since February
1982.

     GORDON C. SMITH has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of G.C.
Smith L.L.C., a holding company for ranch operations and other investments,
since May 2000. Since September 1994, Mr. Smith has served as Secretary and
Treasurer of SSI Management Corp., which manages food service, land, livestock
and aircraft operations. Mr. Smith served in various management positions from
July 1980 until January 1992 for Simplot Financial Corporation, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the J.R. Simplot Company. From May 1988 until his retirement in
March 1994, Mr. Smith served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the
J.R. Simplot Company. From September 1996 until September 1999, he served as the
President of Wesmar, Inc., a food service company. From February 1982 until
February 1984 and since September 1990, he has served on MTI's Board of
Directors. Mr. Smith holds a BS in Accounting from Idaho State University.

     WILLIAM P. WEBER served in various capacities with Texas Instruments
Incorporated, a semiconductor manufacturing company, and its subsidiaries from
1962 until April 1998. From December 1986 until December 1993 he served as the
President of Texas Instrument's worldwide semiconductor operations and from
December 1993 until his retirement in April 1998, he served as Vice Chairman of
Texas Instruments Incorporated. He is a member of the Board of Directors of
Unigraphics Solutions, Inc. He has served on MTI's Board of Directors since July
1998. Mr. Weber holds a BS in Engineering from Lamar University and a MS in
Engineering from Southern Methodist University.

     There is no family relationship between any director or executive officer
of the Company.
