Item 1. Business 


        The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in "Products" regarding the Company's expectation that the CMOS imaging market is expected to grow significantly, and in "Manufacturing" regarding the Company's expectation to transition to 110 nm line-width process technology in 2004 and future product qualification and production volumes for the Company's 300 mm production line. The Company's actual results could differ materially from the Company's historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Certain Factors." All period references are to the Company's fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated.

General 

        Micron Technology, Inc., and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Company") manufacture and market DRAMs, Flash memory, CMOS image sensors and other semiconductor components. Micron Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1978. The Company's executive offices are located at 8000 South Federal Way, Boise, Idaho 83716-9632 and its telephone number is (208) 368-4000. Information about the Company is available on the internet at www.micron.com. Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to these reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or forwarded to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained or referenced on our website is not incorporated by reference and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

        Participation in, and ultimately success in, the semiconductor memory industry is dependent upon a number of factors, including: ownership or access to design and process technology, cost effective silicon processing capability, employment and retention of key personnel, and sufficient access to capital. The Company is one of the most cost-efficient memory suppliers in the industry. 

        Weak market conditions led to the Company's decision in 2003 to restructure its operations. On February 18, 2003, the Company announced a series of cost-reduction initiatives, including the shutdown of its 200 mm wafer fabrication line in Virginia, the discontinuance of certain product lines, including SRAM and TCAM products, and an approximate 10% reduction in its worldwide workforce. (See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Restructure and Other Charges.") 

Products 

        The Company offers semiconductor products with a wide variety of packaging and configuration options, architectures and performance characteristics to meet customer needs. 

        Dynamic Random Access Memory    DRAM products are high density, low-cost-per-bit, random access memory devices that provide high-speed data storage and retrieval. DRAM is the Company's primary product and is the most widely used semiconductor memory component in computer systems. DRAM sales represented approximately 96%, 95% and 87% of the Company's net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 

        In recent years, the Company has broadened its DRAM product line as the market has become more diverse. The Company offers 128 Meg, 256 Meg and 512 Meg Double Data Rate Synchronous DRAM ("DDR") and SDRAM in multiple configurations, speeds and package types. In 2003, DDR 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


replaced SDRAM as the Company's highest volume type of semiconductor memory products sold. DDR accounted for 66%, 21% and 1% of the Company's DRAM sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. DDR is used in computing and networking applications and in a variety of other consumer electronics. The 256 Meg DDR was the Company's primary product in 2003, accounting for 60% of net sales. The Company began shipping commercial volumes of 512 Meg and 1 Gig DDR in 2003. 

        Although market demand has shifted from SDRAM to DDR devices for computing and other applications, demand for SDRAM continues for many consumer applications, such as cell phones, hand held devices and other communications equipment. The Company also provides key customers with legacy DRAM products such as extended data out ("EDO") and fast page mode ("FPM") and lower density products such as the 16 Meg and 64 Meg DRAM. The Company continues to design and develop next generation products, including DDR2, GDDR3 and certain other products, including reduced latency DRAM ("RLDRAM") and Cellular RAM. 

        Flash Memory    Flash products are non-volatile semiconductor devices that retain memory content when the power is turned off, and are electrically re-writeable. Flash is used in networking applications, workstations, servers, PCs, and handheld electronic devices such as digital cellular phones, digital cameras, and digital music players. Sales of Flash devices represented approximately 1%, 2% and 3% of the Company's net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Currently, the Company's Flash offerings are comprised of NOR-based products. 

        Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor ("CMOS") Image Sensors    Image sensors are semiconductor devices that capture images and process them into pictures or video for a variety of consumer and industrial applications. The Company's CMOS image sensors are used in products such as cellular phone cameras, digital cameras, consumable pill cameras for medical use, automotive headlight dimming and motion tracking systems. CMOS imaging is a new market for the Company. The CMOS imaging market is expected to grow significantly over the next several years. Sales for CMOS image sensors accounted for less than 1% of the Company's net sales in 2003. 

Manufacturing 

        The Company is a leading global provider of semiconductor products with manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Italy, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and Scotland. The Company's manufacturing facilities operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. 

        The Company's process for manufacturing semiconductor products is complex, involving a number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication, assembly, burn-in and final test. Efficient production of semiconductor products requires utilization of advanced semiconductor manufacturing techniques and effective deployment of these techniques across multiple facilities. The primary determinants of manufacturing cost are die size, number of mask layers and yield of acceptable die produced on each wafer. Other factors that contribute to manufacturing costs are wafer size, number of fabrication steps, cost and sophistication of manufacturing equipment, equipment utilization, process complexity, cost of raw materials, labor productivity, package type and cleanliness of the manufacturing environment. The Company is continuously enhancing production processes, reducing the die size of existing products and transitioning to higher density products. In 2003, the Company completed the migration of its manufacturing operations to its 130 nanometer ("nm") line-width process technology and transitioned a portion of its manufacturing operations to its 110 nm line-width process technology. The Company expects to transition a majority of its manufacturing operations to 110 nm line-width process technology in 2004. 

        Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize dust and other yield-and quality-limiting contaminants. Despite stringent manufacturing controls, dust particles, equipment errors, minute impurities in materials, defects in photomasks and circuit design marginalities or other problems cause wafers to be scrapped or individual circuits to be nonfunctional. Success of the 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Company's manufacturing operations depends largely on minimizing defects and thereby maximizing yield of high-quality circuits. In this regard, the Company employs rigorous quality controls throughout the manufacturing, screening and testing processes. The Company is able to recover many nonstandard devices by testing and grading them to their highest level of functionality. 

        After fabrication, silicon wafers are separated into individual die. Functional die are sorted, connected to external leads and encapsulated in plastic packages. The Company assembles products in a variety of packages, including TSOP (thin small outline package), TQFP (thin quad flat package) and FBGA (fine pitch ball grid array). Each completed package is then inspected and tested. The Company also sells semiconductor products in unpackaged die form. The Company tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing process, performs high temperature burn-in on finished products and conducts numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production flow. In addition, the Company uses its proprietary AMBYX™ line of intelligent test and burn-in systems to perform simultaneous circuit tests of DRAM die during the burn-in process, capturing quality and reliability data and reducing testing time and cost. 

        A significant portion of the Company's memory products are assembled into memory modules for sale to customers. Memory modules consist of an array of memory components attached to printed circuit boards ("PCBs") that connect to computer systems or other electronic devices. Memory components are attached to PCBs in a soldering process performed by screen printing machines and high speed automated pick and place machines. Completed modules are tested by custom equipment and visually inspected. 

        The Company has established a 300 mm production line at its Virginia facility and expects to qualify its 512 Meg DDR product from that facility for production by the end of calendar 2003. The Company expects to ramp this wafer fabrication facility towards a capacity of 10,000 wafer outs per week over the next two years. 

        TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ("TECH")    TECH is a memory manufacturing joint venture in Singapore among Micron Technology, Inc., the Singapore Economic Development Board, Canon Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Company. TECH's semiconductor manufacturing facilities use the Company's product and process technology. Subject to specific terms and conditions, the Company has agreed to purchase all of the products manufactured by TECH. TECH supplied approximately 30%, 20% and 25% of the total megabits of memory produced by the Company in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company generally purchases semiconductor memory products from TECH at prices determined quarterly, based on a discount from average selling prices realized by the Company for the immediately preceding quarter. The Company performs assembly and test services on product manufactured by TECH. The Company also provides certain technology, engineering and training to support TECH. All of these transactions with TECH are recognized as part of the net cost of products purchased from TECH. 

Availability of Raw Materials 

        The Company requires raw materials that meet exacting standards, including several custom materials. The Company generally has multiple sources of supply; however, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet the Company's standards. Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead frames and molding compound. In addition, any transportation problems could delay the Company's receipt of raw materials. Although raw materials shortages or transportation problems have not interrupted the Company's operations in the past, shortages may occur from time to time in the future. Also, lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past. If the Company's supply of raw materials is interrupted, or lead times are extended, results of operations could be adversely affected. 

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Marketing and Customers 

        Markets for the Company's products are categorized into computing and consumer, networking and telecommunications, and imaging. Approximately 82% of the Company's net sales for 2003 were to the computing market. Sales to both Dell Computer Corporation and Hewlett-Packard Company (including sales to Compaq Computer Corporation before the merger with Hewlett-Packard Company) exceeded 10% of the Company's net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, and aggregated 28%, 28% and 24% of the Company's net sales in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 

        The Company markets its semiconductor products primarily through its own direct sales force. The Company maintains inventory at locations in close proximity to certain key customers to facilitate rapid delivery of product shipments. The Company's products are also offered through independent sales representatives, distributors and Crucial Technology, the Company's web-based customer direct sales division. The Company's products are offered under the Micron, SpecTek and Crucial brand names, and under other private labels. The Company maintains sales offices in North America, Europe, Asia and Japan. Sales representatives obtain orders subject to final acceptance by the Company and are compensated on a commission basis. The Company makes shipments against these orders directly to the customer. Distributors carry the Company's products in inventory and typically sell a variety of other semiconductor products, including competitors' products. 

        The semiconductor memory industry is characterized by volatile market conditions, declining average selling prices, rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and enhancements, difficult product transitions and relatively short product life cycles. Technology transitions, resulting from changing market demand, can make it very difficult to optimize product mix. In addition, diversification of the DRAM market continues, with diverse memory needs being driven by the different requirements of desktop and notebook PCs, servers, workstations, handheld devices, and communications, industrial and other applications that demand specific memory solutions. Many of the Company's customers require a thorough review or qualification of semiconductor products, which may take several months. As the Company further diversifies its product lines and reduces the die sizes of existing memory products, more products become subject to qualification. There can be no assurance that new products will be qualified for purchase by existing or potential customers. 

Backlog 

        Volatile industry conditions make customers reluctant to enter into long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, new order volumes for the Company's semiconductor products fluctuate significantly. Orders are typically accepted with acknowledgment that the terms may be adjusted to reflect market conditions at the date of shipment. Customers can change delivery schedules or cancel orders without significant penalty. For these reasons, the Company does not believe that its order backlog as of any particular date is a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period. 

Product Warranty 

        Because the design and production process for semiconductor products is highly complex, it is possible that the Company may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses. In accordance with industry practice, the Company generally provides a limited warranty that its products are in compliance with Company specifications existing at the time of delivery. Under the Company's general terms and conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product during a stated warranty period is usually limited to repair or replacement of defective items or return of, or a credit with respect to, amounts paid for such items. Under certain circumstances the Company may provide more extensive limited warranty coverage and general legal principles may impose more extensive liability than that provided under the Company's general terms and conditions. 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Competition 

        The Company faces intense competition from a number of companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc., Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Infineon Technologies AG and Samsung Electronics, Inc. Some of these competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which the Company competes, invest in technology and capitalize on growth opportunities. These competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs. These factors have significantly increased worldwide supply and put downward pressure on prices. 

        Historically, various governments have provided economic assistance to international competitors, which has enabled, or artificially supported, competitors' production of semiconductor memory, particularly DRAM. This factor is expected to lead to a continued increase in the supply of DRAM and other semiconductor products in future periods. 

Research and Development 

        To compete in the semiconductor memory industry, the Company must continue to develop technologically advanced products and processes. The Company believes that expansion of its semiconductor product offerings is necessary to meet expected market demand for specific memory solutions. 

        Research and development ("R&D") expenses vary primarily with the number of development wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel costs. The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability and is internally qualified for sale to customers. Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture the Company's products, the Company typically begins to process a significant volume of product before it is internally qualified. As a result, R&D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of product qualification. Product development costs are recorded as R&D expense. The Company's R&D expenses were $656.4 million, $561.3 million and $489.5 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 

        The Company's process technology R&D efforts are focused on its 110 nm, 95 nm and 80 nm line-width process technologies, which are designed to facilitate the Company's transition to next generation products. Additional R&D efforts include processes to support 300 mm wafer manufacturing, Flash, CMOS imagers, and new memory manufacturing materials. In addition to its process technology efforts, the Company continues to emphasize product designs that utilize advanced process technology. The Company has several product design centers around the world, the largest located at its headquarters in Boise, Idaho. Efforts toward the design and development of new products are concentrated on the Company's 512 Meg and 1 Gig DDR, DDR2, GDDR3, Flash memory products, CMOS imagers and other DRAM products, including reduced latency DRAM ("RLDRAM") and Cellular RAM. In addition, the Company has a facility at its Boise, Idaho site to develop leading edge photolithography mask technology. 

International Sales 

        Sales to customers outside the United States totaled $1.7 billion for 2003 and included $736.9 million in sales to the Asia Pacific region, $612.4 million in sales to Europe and $260.1 million in sales to Japan. International sales totaled $1.4 billion for 2002 and $1.8 billion for 2001. (See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Geographic Information.") 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Patents and Licenses 

        The Company owns approximately 9,600 United States patents and 700 foreign patents. In addition, the Company has numerous United States and foreign patent applications pending. The Company's patents have terms expiring from 2003 through 2022. 

        As is typical in the semiconductor and other high technology industries, from time to time, others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that the Company's products or processes infringe their product or process technology rights. The Company is currently engaged in litigation with Rambus, Inc. ("Rambus") relating to certain of Rambus' patents and certain of the Company's claims and defenses. Lawsuits between Rambus and the Company are pending in the United States, Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the Rambus suits or of other assertions of infringements made against the Company. A court determination that the Company's manufacturing processes or products infringe the product or process rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require the Company to make material changes to its products and/or manufacturing processes. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. 

        The Company has a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements. Some of these license agreements require the Company to make one time or periodic payments. The Company may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future. The Company is unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms. 

Employees 

        As of August 28, 2003, the Company had approximately 16,600 employees, including approximately 10,900 in the United States, 2,700 in the Asia Pacific region, 1,900 in Europe and 1,100 in Japan. The Company's employees in Italy are represented by labor organizations that have entered into national and local labor contracts with the Company. The Company's employment levels can vary depending on market conditions and the level of the Company's production, research and product and process development. Many of the Company's employees are highly skilled, and the Company's continued success depends in part upon its ability to attract and retain such employees. The loss of key Company personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. 

Environmental Compliance 

        Government regulations impose various environmental controls on discharges, emissions and solid wastes from the Company's manufacturing processes. In 2003, the Company's wafer fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001 certification. To continue certification, the Company met requirements in environmental policy, compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training, communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness and response, record keeping and management review. While the Company has not experienced any materially adverse effects on its operations from environmental or other government regulations, changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures, modification of operations or other compliance actions. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

        Officers of the Company are appointed annually by the Board of Directors. Directors of the Company are elected annually by the shareholders of the Company. Any directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board serve until the next election by the shareholders. All 

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


officers and directors serve until their successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal. 

        As of August 28, 2003, the following executive officers and directors of the Company were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

Name

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Age
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Position
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Steven R. Appleton   43   Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 
Kipp A. Bedard   44   Vice President of Corporate Affairs 
Robert M. Donnelly   64   Vice President of Computing and Consumer Group 
Jan du Preez   46   Vice President of Networking and Communications Group 
D. Mark Durcan   42   Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Research and Development 
Robert J. Gove   49   Vice President of Imaging 
Jay L. Hawkins   43   Vice President of Operations 
Roderic W. Lewis   48   Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 
Michael W. Sadler   45   Vice President of Worldwide Sales 
Wilbur G. Stover, Jr.   50   Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer 
James W. Bagley   64   Director 
Robert A. Lothrop   77   Director 
Thomas T. Nicholson   67   Director 
Gordon C. Smith   74   Director 
William P. Weber   63   Director 

        Steven R. Appleton joined the Company in February 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Appleton first became an officer of the Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions with the Company since that time. From April 1991 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on the Company's Board of Directors. Since September 1994, Mr. Appleton has served as the Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Appleton is a member of the Board of Directors of National Semiconductor Corporation. Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management from Boise State University. 

        Kipp A. Bedard joined the Company in November 1983 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Bedard first became an officer of the Company in April 1990 and has served in various officer positions since that time. Since January 1994, Mr. Bedard has served as Vice President of Corporate Affairs for the Company. Mr. Bedard holds a BBA in Accounting from Boise State University. 

        Robert M. Donnelly joined the Company in September 1988 and has served in various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Donnelly first became an officer of the Company in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions since that time. Mr. Donnelly holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Louisville. 

        Jan du Preez joined the Company in June 2002 as Vice President of Networking and Communications Group. Mr. du Preez served as the President of Infineon Technologies North America Corporation from August 2000 until he joined the Company in June 2002. From October 1996 through July 2000, Mr. du Preez served as the Vice President of Memory Products Group for Infineon 

8


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Technologies North America Corporation (formerly Siemens Semiconductors). Mr. du Preez holds Bachelors Degrees in Public Administration and Business Economics from the University of Pretoria and a Masters Degree in Commerce from Rand University. 

        D. Mark Durcan joined the Company in June 1984 and has served in various technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries since that time. Mr. Durcan served as Vice President, Process Research and Development from June 1996 through June 1997, at which time he became Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Research and Development. Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MChE in Chemical Engineering from Rice University. 

        Robert J. Gove joined the Company in March 1999 as Senior Director of Engineering and has served in various positions with the Company. In March 2002, he was appointed Vice President of Imaging. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gove served as Vice President, Engineering, of Equator Technologies, Inc. Mr. Gove holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and an MS in Electrical Engineering and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. 

        Jay L. Hawkins joined the Company in March 1984 and has served in various manufacturing positions for the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Hawkins served as Vice President, Manufacturing Administration from February 1996 through June 1997, at which time he became Vice President of Operations. Mr. Hawkins holds a BBA in Marketing from Boise State University. 

        Roderic W. Lewis joined the Company in August 1991 and has served in various capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Lewis has served as Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 1996. Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School of Law. 

        Michael W. Sadler joined the Company in September 1992 as a Regional Sales Manager and has held various sales and marketing positions since that time. Mr. Sadler first became an officer of the Company in July 1997 and has served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales since November 2001. Mr. Sadler holds a BS in Information Systems and an MBA from the University of Santa Clara. 

        Wilbur G. Stover, Jr.    joined the Company in June 1989 and has served in various financial positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Since September 1994, Mr. Stover has served as the Company's Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Stover holds a BA in Business Administration from Washington State University. 

        James W. Bagley became the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lam Research Corporation ("Lam"), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in August 1997, upon consummation of a merger of OnTrak Systems, Inc. into Lam. Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc. He has served on the Company's Board of Directors since June 1997. Mr. Bagley holds a BS and MS in Electrical Engineering from Mississippi State University. 

        Robert A. Lothrop served as Senior Vice President of J.R. Simplot Company, an agribusiness company, from January 1986 until his retirement in January 1991. From August 1986 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Lothrop has served on the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Lothrop holds a BS in Engineering from the University of Idaho. 

        Thomas T. Nicholson has served as Vice President and a Director of Honda of Seattle and Toyota of Seattle since 1988. Mr. Nicholson served from 1982 to May 2000 as President, and since May 2000 as Vice President, of Mountain View Equipment Company. He has served on the Company's Board of Directors since May 1980. Mr. Nicholson holds a BS in Agriculture from the University of Idaho. 

        Gordon C. Smith has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of G.C. Smith L.L.C., a holding company for ranch operations and other investments, since May 2000. Mr. Smith served in various management positions from July 1980 until May 1988 for the J.R. Simplot Company. From 

9


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


May 1988 until his retirement in March 1994, Mr. Smith served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of J.R. Simplot Company. Prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of J.R. Simplot Company, Mr. Smith served as its Chief Financial Officer for seven years. From September 1996 until September 1999, he served as President of Wesmar, Inc., a food service company. From February 1982 until February 1984 and since September 1990, he has served on the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Smith holds a BS in Accounting from Idaho State University. 

        William P. Weber served in various capacities with Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor manufacturing company, and its subsidiaries from 1962 until April 1998. From December 1986 until December 1993 he served as the President of Texas Instruments' worldwide semiconductor operations and from December 1993 until his retirement in April 1998, he served as Vice Chairman of Texas Instruments Incorporated. He has served on the Company's Board of Directors since July 1998. Mr. Weber holds a BS in Engineering from Lamar University and a MS in Engineering from Southern Methodist University. 

        There is no family relationship between any director or executive officer of the Company. 
