ITEM 1.    BUSINESS


Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. (“Maxim” or the “Company”) designs, develops, manufactures, and markets a broad range of linear and mixed-signal integrated circuits, commonly referred to as analog circuits. The Company also provides a range of high-frequency design processes and capabilities that can be used in custom designs. The analog market is fragmented and characterized by many diverse applications, a great number of product variations, and, as to many circuit types, relatively long product life cycles. Maxim’s objective is to develop and market both proprietary and industry-standard analog integrated circuits that meet the increasingly stringent quality standards demanded by customers. Based on product announcements by its competitors, Maxim believes that in the past 20 years it has developed more products for the analog market, including proprietary and second-source products, than any of its competitors over the same period.


In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2001, the Company acquired Dallas Semiconductor Corporation. The Company issued approximately 41.0 million shares of its common stock in exchange for all the outstanding common stock of Dallas Semiconductor. In addition, the Company assumed all stock options to purchase Dallas Semiconductor common stock in exchange for options to purchase approximately 5.9 million shares of the Company’s common stock. The transaction was accounted for as a pooling-of-interests. Accordingly, unless specifically stated otherwise, all financial data of the Company was restated to include the historical financial data of Dallas Semiconductor. See Note 4 “Business Combination” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At the time of the acquisition, Dallas Semiconductor’s product line consisted of 390 proprietary base products sold to over 15,000 customers worldwide. Applications for those products include battery management, broadband telecommunications, wireless handsets, cellular base stations, networking, servers, data storage, and a wide variety of industrial equipment.


The Company is a Delaware corporation that was originally incorporated in California in 1983. It is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. The mailing address for the Company’s headquarters is 120 San Gabriel Drive, Sunnyvale, California 94086, and the Company’s telephone number is (408) 737-7600. Additional information about the Company is available on the Company’s website at www.maxim-ic.com.

The Analog Integrated Circuit Market


All electronic signals fall into one of two categories, linear or digital. Linear (or analog) signals represent real world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, or speed, and are continuously variable over a wide range of values. Digital signals represent the “ones” and “zeros” of binary arithmetic and are either on or off.


Three general classes of semiconductor products arise from this partitioning of signals into linear or digital. There are those, such as memories and microprocessors, that operate only in the digital domain. There are linear devices such as amplifiers, references, analog multiplexers, and switches that operate primarily in the analog domain. Finally, there are mixed-signal devices that combine linear and digital functions on the same integrated circuit and interface between the analog and digital worlds. Maxim’s strategy has been to target both the linear and mixed-signal markets, often collectively referred to as the analog market. In addition, Maxim has added some Dallas Semiconductor products that are exclusively or principally digital as well as a significant number of engineers skilled in digital design and software development. Although the acquisition has not substantially affected Maxim’s strong focus on the linear and mixed signal market, it has supplemented Maxim’s capabilities in the digital area in ways that should enable development of new products, mixed signal and other, with very sophisticated digital characteristics. Risks associated with fulfilling this expectation are discussed in “Item 1., Business — Trends, Risks and Uncertainties.”


The Company believes that, compared to the digital integrated circuit market, the analog market has generally been characterized by a wider range of standard products used in smaller quantities by a larger number of customers, and in many cases, by longer product life cycles and lower capital requirements as a result of generally using less dense manufacturing technologies. The Company believes that the widespread application of low-cost microprocessor-based systems and of digital communication technologies has affected the market for analog integrated circuits by increasing the need for signal conditioning interfaces between the digital and analog world.

1


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The analog market is a fragmented group of markets, serving numerous and widely differing applications for instrumentation, industrial control, data processing, communications, automotive, consumer, military, video, and selected medical equipment. For each application, different users may have unique requirements for circuits with specific resolution, accuracy, linearity, speed, power, and signal amplitude capability, which results in a high degree of market complexity. Maxim’s products can be used in a variety of applications, but serve only certain portions of the total analog market.

Products and Applications


The Company believes that it addresses the requirements of the market by providing competitively priced products that add value to electronic equipment with superior quality and reliability.


The Company’s research and development programs emphasize development of technically innovative processes and products. In addition, the Company also develops second-source products. The Company’s products are available with numerous packaging alternatives, including packages for surface mount technology.


The following table illustrates the major industries served by the Company and typical applications for which the Company’s products can be used:

Industry
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Typical Application
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Automotive                     Displays
Global Positioning Systems
Keyless Entry
Pressure Sensing     
Communications                     Broadband Networks
Cable Systems
Cellular Base Stations
Central Office Switches
Direct Broadcast TV
DSL Modems
Fiber Communication
Optical Transceivers
Pagers
PBXs
Phones
    • Cellular/PCS
    • Cordless
Satellite Communications
T1/E1 and T3/E3
Video Communications
Wireless Communications
Satellite Radio
Global Positioning Systems
Digital/Terrestrial TV
Wireless Local Area Networks
Broadband Access and Home Networking Systems 
 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Industry
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Typical Application
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Consumer                     Digital Cameras
DVDs
MP3 Players
PDAs
Personal Computers
Phones
    • Cellular
    • Cordless
White Goods
Wireless Headsets     
Data Processing                     Bar-code Readers
Disk Drives
Global Positioning Systems
Hand-Held Computers/PDAs
Mainframes
Personal Computers
Printers
Point of Sale Terminals
Servers
Storage Systems
Tape Drives
Workstations     
Industrial Control                     Control of
    • Flow
    • Position
    • Pressure
    • Temperature
    • Velocity
Robotics     
Instrumentation                     Automatic Test Equipment
Analyzers
Data Recorders
Measuring Instruments
    • Electrical
    • Light
    • Pressure
    • Sound
    • Speed
    • Temperature
    • Time
Testers     
 


The Company also sells products for military, video, and selected medical equipment.


While Maxim’s proprietary products have received substantial market acceptance, some of Maxim’s competitors have developed second source products for some of Maxim’s successful innovative proprietary products. Typically in the semiconductor industry, when a proprietary product becomes second sourced, the credibility of the original design is enhanced, and there is an opportunity to increase total revenues as the potential customers’ reluctance to design in a sole-source product is removed, but gross margins may be adversely affected due to increased price competition.

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Product Quality


In the product design phase, the Company applies a set of circuit design rules derived from modeling and characterization of the process and individual circuit elements. The completeness of this characterization and the limits of these models can affect the final quality of the product. There is a higher risk that model characterization of the internally developed processes contains incomplete data; however, such processes are refined as the processes mature. The performance of product designs is dependent on the process operating within the limits specified for critical parameters. Deviations from these limits can affect the quality of the end product. Critical process parameters have to maintain a level of stability for subsequent long-term reliability tests to validate the integrity of the process and material produced using the process.The Company measures the stability of these process parameters using test routines and structures that simulate the actual devices used in product design. Simulations generally approximate actual device limits but are not always able to match all usage environments or conditions. The Company believes a comprehensive and thorough engineering approach is applied to the development and deployment of these test routines and structures. The data compiled from the measurement of these critical parameters is statistically analyzed and determines the acceptance of the wafers to be used in the manufacture of the Company’s product. The test routines and structures used by the Company do not provide complete assurance that all quality problems or issues will be detected.


Product quality is determined by conformance to predetermined parameters. These parameters are either tested during manufacturing or guaranteed by design. Predetermined parameters guaranteed by design are reliant on the stability of the wafer fabrication process, the amount of process margin and the completeness of product characterization. Reliability testing is done during wafer process development, process release, and product release stages and serves as a control of process consistency. Parameters tested during manufacturing are dependent on the integrity of the manufacturing test operation, which includes factors such as test software, stability and repeatability of test systems, test set up issues, and other factors and variables. The Company believes a significant amount of diligence is applied to monitor and control the manufacturing test operation.


The Company utilizes a procedure that allows for the shipment of new products prior to complete qualification of the process or package being used in the production process. Process verification testing is generally completed no later than 90 days after product introduction. Verification testing may indicate the released product should be recalled. Should quality issues arise, product released before verification testing is complete may cause direct or indirect damages to the Company’s customers or the ultimate end customers. The Company may be liable for such damages and such damages may materially adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.


Long term thermal and mechanical testing is performed to detect the presence of any defects, which may arise over the life of a product’s use; however, an emphasis is placed by the Company on early infant mortality failure rates. Significant changes to a production process or qualified package are re-evaluated with applicable tests defined to identify any affects changes may have on product performance. Semiconductor fabrication is a complex process. Although Maxim believes that the above testing regime is comprehensive and that it meets or exceeds industry standards, a possibility exists that failure mechanisms could elude detection. This could expose the company to liability, unforeseen customer returns, and loss of reputation.

Manufacturing


Maxim uses its own wafer fabrication and, to a small extent, silicon foundries to produce wafers. The majority of processed wafers are subjected to parametric and functional testing at the Company’s facilities. As is customary in the industry, the Company ships most of its processed wafers to foreign assembly subcontractors, located in the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea, where wafers are separated into individual integrated circuits and assembled into a variety of packages.


After assembly has been completed, the majority of the assembled product is shipped to the Company’s test facilities located in Cavite, the Philippines, and Samutprakarn Province, Thailand. The Company performs about half of its wafer sort operations at its U.S. facilities and about half of its wafer sort operations at its facility located in Cavite, the Philippines, with the capacity to electronically test and laser trim the majority of the Company’s wafers. During fiscal year 2002, the Company completed the transfer of testing operations for Dallas product to

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


the Company’s test facilities located in Cavite, the Philippines, with the exception of low volume Dallas product, which will continue to be tested in Dallas, Texas. During fiscal year 2003, approximately 90% of the testing of Dallas packaged product was performed at the Company’s test facilities located in Cavite, the Philippines.


In fiscal year 2003, the Company purchased land in Chonburi Province, Thailand. The Company plans to construct a 140,000 sq. ft. test facility on that site. Construction is expected to be completed and the test facility ready for test operations by the beginning of fiscal year 2005. When completed, the Company will relocate from its current leased site in Samutprakarn Province, Thailand. This test operation can be doubled in size when the Company needs further test capacity as demand dictates. Currently, the Company’s facilities located in Cavite, the Philippines and Samutprakarn Province, Thailand combined have enough test manufacturing and shipping space to meet the Company’s fiscal year 2004 financial plan, subject always to normal and to unforeseen challenges in meeting product demand.


Once testing has been completed, finished product from the Company’s test facility located in Samutprakarn Province, Thailand is shipped to the Company’s finished goods location at its test facility in Cavite, the Philippines. Finished product is either shipped directly from Cavite, the Philippines to customers worldwide or to other Company locations for sale to end customers or distributors.


The broad range of products demanded by the analog integrated circuit market requires multiple manufacturing process technologies. Many different process technologies are currently used for wafer fabrication of the Company’s products. Historically, wafer fabrication of analog integrated circuits has not required the state-of-the-art processing equipment necessary for the fabrication of advanced digital integrated circuits, although newer processes do utilize and require some of these facilities and equipment. In addition, hybrid products are manufactured using a complex multichip technology featuring thin-film, thick-film, laser-trimmed resistors and other active or passive components.


For the majority of these technologies, the Company relies on its fabrication facilities in San Jose, California; Beaverton, Oregon; Dallas, Texas; and, to a small extent, manufacturing subcontractors. The Company currently uses five subcontract silicon foundries that represent approximately 5% of wafer production. None of the subcontractors currently used by Maxim is affiliated with Maxim.


Most of the wafers produced in fiscal year 2003 were manufactured at one of the Company’s three wafer fabrication facilities. The Company’s wafer fabrication facility located in Dallas, Texas was originally built in 1986 and expanded in 1989, 1994 and 2001. This facility currently produces both six-inch and eight-inch wafers. The Company will be converting six-inch wafer production at this facility to eight-inch wafer production during fiscal year 2004. See Note 14 “Merger and Special Charges” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 1989, the Company acquired a four-inch wafer fabrication facility in Sunnyvale, California capable of producing 3 micron Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) and bipolar products. In May 1994, the Company acquired a mixed-class wafer fabrication facility in Beaverton, Oregon capable of producing CMOS and bipolar products. In November 1997, the Company acquired a wafer fabrication facility in San Jose, California. The Company transferred production from the four-inch wafer fabrication facility in Sunnyvale to the Beaverton facility and suspended wafer production at the Sunnyvale facility in December 1998. The Beaverton, Oregon wafer fabrication facility currently manufactures six-inch wafers. The San Jose, California wafer fabrication facility currently manufactures both six-inch and eight-inch wafers. The process of converting production capacity at its San Jose, California facility from six-inch wafer production to eight-inch wafer production will be complete during the first half of fiscal year 2004. The Company anticipates it will manufacture six-inch wafers through fiscal year 2004 at this wafer fabrication facility. See “Item 2., Properties.”


In the past and as sometimes happens in the semiconductor industry, the Company has experienced disruptions in the supply of processed wafers due to quality problems or failure to achieve satisfactory electrical yields. If the foundries used by the Company were unwilling or the Company’s own internal wafer fabrication facilities were unable to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers conforming to the Company’s quality standards, the Company’s business and relationships with its customers could be adversely affected.


Due to the relatively lengthy manufacturing cycle, the Company builds some of its inventory in advance of receiving orders from its customers. As a consequence of inaccuracies inherent in forecasting, inventory imbalances periodically occur that result in surplus amounts of some Company products and shortages of others. Such shortages

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


can adversely affect customer relations and surpluses can result in larger-than-desired inventory levels, which can adversely affect the Company’s financial position. Excess inventory issues can also arise when customers cancel orders. Finished products and work in process for those orders may be unsaleable. See “Item 1., Business — Trends, Risks and Uncertainties — Factors Affecting Future Operating Results.”

Sales and Marketing


In the United States and Canada, the Company sells its products through a direct sales and applications organization in nine regional sales offices and through its own and other unaffiliated distribution channels. As is customary in the industry, most domestic distributors are entitled to certain price rebates and product return privileges.


International sales are conducted by 25 Maxim sales offices, 2 sales representative organizations and 27 distributors. The Company sells in both United States dollars and various foreign currencies. A majority of the Company’s international sales are billed and payable in United States dollars and are therefore not directly subject to currency exchange fluctuations. A portion of the Company’s sales from its United Kingdom, French, and German affiliates is denominated in the local currencies. The majority of the sales to customers and distributors located in Japan are denominated in yen. The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to protect the United States dollar value of its firm sales commitments and net monetary assets. Changes in the relative value of the dollar, however, may create pricing pressures for Maxim’s products. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation have been proposed in the United States and certain foreign countries. A change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect the Company’s foreign marketing strategies. In general, payment terms for foreign customers, distributors and others, which represent a majority of the Company’s accounts receivable at June 28, 2003, are longer than for U.S. customers. Certain major Japanese customers have payment terms that are generally well beyond payment terms extended to customers in other geographic locations. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, the Company’s domestic distributors may market products competitive with Maxim’s.


International sales accounted for approximately 67%, 66%, and 57% of net revenues in fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. See Note 13 “Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


As of June 28, 2003, the Company’s backlog was approximately $227 million as compared to approximately $239 million at June 29, 2002. The Company includes in its backlog customer-released orders with firm schedules for shipment within the next 12 months. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, these orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. In addition, the Company’s backlog includes orders from domestic distributors as to which revenues are not recognized until the products are sold by the distributors. Accordingly, the Company believes that its backlog at any time should not be used as a measure of future revenues. All of the backlog numbers have been adjusted to be net of cancellations and estimated future U.S. distribution ship and debit pricing adjustments.


The Company warrants its products to its customers generally for 12 months from shipment, but in certain cases for longer periods. Warranty expense to date has been minimal. In certain other cases, the Company warrants products to include significant liability beyond the cost of replacing the product.

Research and Development


The Company believes that research and development is critical to its future success. Objectives for the research and development function include definition, design, and layout of innovative proprietary products that meet customer needs, development of second-source products, design of parts for high yield and reliability, test development, and development of manufacturing processes and advanced packaging to support an expanding product line.


Due to the research and development plans of the Company and the shortage of qualified design engineering talent, the Company does not always have the number of engineers required to meet its research and development goals.


Research and development expenses were approximately $272.3 million, $275.5 million, and $280.2 million in fiscal years 2003, 2002, and 2001 respectively.

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Competition


The analog integrated circuit industry is intensely competitive, and virtually all major semiconductor companies presently compete with, or conceivably could compete with, some segment of the Company’s business. Maxim’s competitors are Altera Corporation, Anadigics Inc., Analog Devices, Inc., Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Conexant Systems Inc., Cygnal Integrated Products, Inc., Exar Corp., Fairchild Semiconductor Corp., Infineon Technologies AG, Intel Corporation’s Level One Communications, Inc. Subsidiary, Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology Corporation, Lucent Technologies, Micrel Inc., Microchip Technology Inc., Mitsubishi Corporation, Mitsui & Co. Ltd., Motorola Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, ON Semiconductor Corporation, Philips Electronics N.V., PMC-Sierra Inc., RF Micro Devices Inc., Ricoh Company Ltd., Seiko Corporation, Semtech Corporation, STMicroelectronics N.V., Silicon Laboratories Inc., Siliconix Inc., Sipex Corporation, Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Texas Instruments Inc., Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation and others, including start-up companies. Some of Maxim’s competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than the Company, and some of Maxim’s competitors have greater technical resources. The Company believes it competes favorably with these corporations primarily on the basis of technical innovation, product definition, quality, price, and service. There can be no assurance that competitive factors will not adversely affect the Company’s future business.

Patents, Licenses, and Other Intellectual Property Rights


The Company relies upon both know-how and patents to develop and maintain its competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer the Company’s products or that the confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, silicon foundries and other suppliers and vendors will be adequate to protect the Company’s interests.


The Company currently owns 429 U.S. patents and 55 foreign patents with expiration dates ranging from 2004 to 2022. In addition, the Company has applied for 77 U.S. patents, a large number of which have corresponding patent applications in multiple foreign jurisdictions. It is the Company’s policy to seek patent protection for significant inventions that may be patented, though the Company may elect, in appropriate cases, not to seek patent protection even for significant inventions if other protection, such as maintaining the invention as a trade secret, is considered more advantageous. In addition, the Company has registered certain of its mask sets under the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984.


There can be no assurance that any patent will issue on pending applications or that any patent issued will provide substantive protection for the technology or product covered by it. The Company believes that patent and mask work protection is of less significance in its business than experience, innovation, and management skill.


Maxim has registered several of its trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in foreign jurisdictions.


Maxim is a party to a number of licenses, including patent licenses and other licenses obtained from Tektronix in connection with its acquisition of Tektronix’s Integrated Circuit Operation in May 1994.


Due to the many technological developments and the technical complexity of the semiconductor industry, it is possible that certain of the Company’s designs or processes may involve infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights held by others. From time to time, the Company has received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by its products on intellectual property rights of third parties. (See “Item 1., Business — Trends, Risks and Uncertainties — Intellectual Property Litigation and Claims,” and “Item 3., Legal Proceedings.”) If any such infringements were to exist, the Company might be obligated to seek a license from the holder of the rights and might have liability for past infringement. In the past, it has been common semiconductor industry practice for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. Although in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses, though the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing. However, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to obtain licenses as needed in all cases or that the terms of any license that may be offered will be acceptable to Maxim. In those circumstances where an acceptable license is not available, the Company would need either to change the process or product so that it no longer infringes or else stop manufacturing the product or products involved in the infringement.

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Environmental Regulation


Federal, state, and local regulations impose a variety of environmental controls on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in semiconductor manufacturing. The Company’s facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations, and it believes that its activities are conducted in material compliance with such regulations. There can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon the Company. Any failure of the Company to control adequately the storage, use, and disposal of regulated substances could result in future liabilities.


Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations. While the Company to date has not experienced any materially adverse effects on its business from environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such regulations will not have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

Employees


The supply of skilled engineers required for Maxim’s business is limited, and competition for such personnel is intense. The Company’s growth also requires the hiring or training of additional middle-level managers. If the Company is unable to hire, retain, and motivate qualified technical and management personnel, its operations and financial results will be adversely affected.


None of the Company’s employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement.


As of June 28, 2003, the Company had 6,202 employees.

Trends, Risks and Uncertainties


An investment in the securities of Maxim involves certain risks. In evaluating the Company and its business, prospective investors should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the documents incorporated herein by reference and in other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Factors Affecting Future Operating Results


The Company’s future operating results are difficult to predict and may be affected by a number of factors.


The semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns at various times. After a period of increasing demand that extended through fiscal year 2000, the semiconductor industry, including the portions in which the Company participates, experienced dramatically decreased demand. Although some of the causes of that decrease are known, including significant excess inventories in the hands of equipment manufacturers and other potential customers, it remains unclear what all the causes may have been and whether that period of decreased demand has ended. In fiscal year 2003, Maxim achieved increases in net revenues and profit over fiscal year 2002 levels of 12.5% and 19.5%, respectively. However, Maxim’s ability to achieve future revenue growth depends on whether, and the extent to which, demand for its products increases and reflects real end user demand and whether customer cancellations and delays of outstanding orders remain small.


Other key factors affecting the Company’s revenues and operating results that could cause actual results to differ materially from past or predicted results include the timing of new product announcements or introductions by the Company and its competitors, competitive pricing pressures, fluctuations in manufacturing yields and manufacturing efficiency, adequate availability of wafers and other materials and manufacturing capacity, changes in product mix, and economic conditions in the United States and international markets. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience material fluctuations in its future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis.


The Company’s ability to realize its quarterly revenue goals and projections is affected to a significant extent by its ability to match inventory and current production mix with the product mix required to fulfill orders on hand and orders received within a quarter for delivery in that quarter (referred to as “turns business”). This issue, which

8


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


has been one of the distinguishing characteristics of the analog integrated circuit industry, results from the very large number of individual parts offered for sale and the very large number of customers, combined with limitations on Maxim’s and its customers’ ability to forecast orders accurately, and relatively lengthy manufacturing cycles. Because of this extreme complexity in the Company’s business, no assurance can be given that the Company will achieve a match of inventory on hand, production units, and shippable orders sufficient to realize quarterly or annual revenue goals.


In addition, in certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, such as notebook computers and cellular handsets, some Maxim customers place orders that require Maxim to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product. At any given time, this situation could affect a portion of the Company’s backlog. As a result, in any quarterly fiscal period, the Company is subject to the risk of cancellation of orders leading to a sharp fall-off of sales and backlog. Further, those orders may be for products that meet the customer’s unique requirements so that those cancelled orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, resulting in potential inventory write-offs. Because of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial. The Company routinely estimates inventory reserves required for such product. Actual results may differ from these reserve estimates, and such differences may be material to Maxim’s financial condition, gross margins, and results of operations. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.”

Dependence on New Products and Process Technologies


The Company’s future success will continue to depend on its continued ability to introduce new products and to develop new process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technology are subject to rapid technological change, requiring a high level of expenditures for research and development. Design and process development for the portions of the semiconductor market in which the Company participates are particularly challenging. The success of new product introductions is dependent on several factors, including proper new product selection, timely product introduction, achievement of acceptable production yields, and market acceptance. From time to time, Maxim has not fully achieved its new product introduction and process development goals. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully develop or implement new process technologies or that new products will be introduced on a timely basis or receive substantial market acceptance.


In addition, the Company’s growth is dependent on its continued ability to penetrate new markets where the Company has limited experience and competition is intense. There can be no assurance that the markets being served by the Company will grow (for example, older markets do saturate and decline); that the Company’s existing and new products will meet the requirements of such markets; that the Company’s products will achieve customer acceptance in such markets; that competitors will not force prices to an unacceptably low level or take market share from the Company; or that the Company can achieve or maintain profitability in these markets.

Manufacturing Risks


The fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage, or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. The Company has from time to time experienced lower-than-expected production yields and reliability problems, which have delayed product shipments and adversely affected gross margins. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience a decrease in manufacturing yields or reliability problems, or that the Company will be able to maintain acceptable manufacturing yields and reliability in the future.


The number of shippable dice per wafer for a given product is critical to the Company’s results of operations. To the extent the Company does not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or experiences delays in its wafer fabrication, assembly or final test operations, its results of operations could be adversely affected. During periods of decreased demand, fixed wafer fabrication costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, gross margins, and results of operations.

9


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



The Company is currently in the process of upgrading and expanding certain of its wafer manufacturing capacity at its existing wafer manufacturing facilities in order to convert to eight-inch wafers and develop new processes, which are necessary for the successful entry into significantly large markets, in anticipation of increased customer demand for its products. Should the Company be unsuccessful in completing this expansion on time or should customer demand fail to increase and the Company no longer needs the additional capacity, the Company’s financial position and results of operations could be adversely impacted.


The Company manufactures approximately 95% of its wafer production requirements internally. Given the nature of the Company’s products, it would be very difficult and costly to arrange for independent manufacturing facilities to supply such products. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of the Company’s manufacturing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

Competition


The Company experiences intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than the Company and some of which have greater technical resources than the Company and have intellectual property rights to which the Company is not privy. To the extent that the Company’s proprietary products become more successful, competitors will offer second source products for some of those products, possibly causing some erosion of profit margins. See “Item 1., Business — Competition.”

Dependence on Independent Distributors and Sales Representatives


A significant portion of the Company’s sales is realized through independent electronics distributors and a limited portion of the Company’s sales is realized through independent sales representatives that are not under the control of the Company. Dallas Semiconductor continues to have a larger percentage of their sales through the distribution channel than the Maxim only business. These independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to the Company’s products or terminate their representation of the Company. Payment terms for foreign distributors are substantially longer, either according to contract or by practice, than for U.S. customers. The Company generally requires foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to the Company in an amount equal to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. The letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to the Company. The Company does not require letters of credit from any of its domestic distributors and is not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. The inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Termination of a significant distributor, whether at the Company’s or the distributor’s initiative, could be disruptive to the Company’s current business. If the Company were unable to find suitable replacements, terminations by significant distributors or representatives could have a material adverse impact on the Company. See “Item 1., Business — Sales and Marketing.”

Dependence on Independent Foundries, Subcontractors, Thailand Test Facility and Philippines Test and Shipping Facility


Although the Company has an internal capability to fabricate most of its wafers, Maxim remains dependent on outside silicon foundries for a small but important portion of its wafer fabrication. None of the foundries currently used by Maxim is affiliated with Maxim. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, from time to time, the Company has experienced disruptions in the supply of processed wafers from these foundries due to quality problems, failure to achieve satisfactory electrical yields, and capacity limitations. Procurement from foundries is done by purchase order and contracts. If these foundries are unable or unwilling to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers conforming to the Company’s quality standards, the Company’s business and relationships with its customers for the limited quantities of products produced by these foundries would be adversely affected. Finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products would not be economically feasible.


Maxim relies on assembly subcontractors located in the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea to separate wafers into individual integrated circuits and package them. The

10


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Company performs wafer sort operations for about half of its wafers and final testing for about two-thirds of its products at a Philippines facility owned by the Company. During fiscal year 2002, the Company transferred a significant portion of the testing of Dallas Semiconductor product to the Company’s test facility located in Cavite, the Philippines. In the past, South Korea and the Philippines have experienced political disorders, labor disruptions, and natural disasters. Although the Company has been affected by these problems, none has materially affected the Company’s revenues or costs to date. However, similar problems in the future or more aggravated consequences of current problems, could affect deliveries to Maxim of assembled, tested product, possibly resulting in substantial delayed or lost sales and/or increased expense. The Thailand test facility performs less than one-third of the Company’s final testing for its products but would not provide sufficient capacity to make up for a significant disruption in the Philippines test facility. Reliability problems experienced by the Company’s assemblers could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to the Company.


The Company performs substantially all of its final testing at its facilities in the Philippines and Thailand. Given the nature of the Company’s test operations, it would be very difficult and costly to arrange for independent testing facilities to supply such test services. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of the Company’s testing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.


As previously noted, once testing has been completed on the Company’s product, finished product from the Company’s test facility located in Samutprakarn Province, Thailand is shipped to the Company’s finished goods location at its test facility in Cavite, the Philippines. Finished product is either shipped directly from Cavite, the Philippines to customers worldwide or to other Company locations for sale to end customers or distributors. See “Item 1., Business — Manufacturing.” Should there be disruption for any reason to the shipping operations in Cavite, the Philippines, the Company might not be able to meet its revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted. Failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact the Company’s results of operations.

Availability and Quality of Materials, Supplies, and Subcontract Services


The semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. As a result of increasing demand from semiconductor manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth and ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, have from time to time, over the past few years, been in short supply and may be expected to come into short supply again if overall industry demand increases in the future. Maxim devotes continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies, and subcontract services. However, Maxim does not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies, and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a materially adverse effect on Maxim’s ability to achieve its planned production.


A number of Dallas Semiconductor products, including nonvolatile Static Random Access Memory products (SRAMs), real time clocks, and iButtonTM products use components such as static memory circuits, batteries, PC boards, and crystals that are purchased from third parties. The Company anticipates that from time to time supplies of these components may not be sufficient to meet all customer requested delivery dates for products containing the components. As a result of any such shortages, future sales and earnings from products using these components could be adversely affected. Additionally, significant fluctuations in the purchase price for these components could affect gross margins for the products involved. Suppliers could also discontinue the manufacture of such purchased products or could have quality problems that could affect the Company’s ability to meet customer commitments. Quality problems experienced by suppliers could be impossible to reproduce or detect in a controlled environment, or could inadvertently not be detected by the Company’s quality control procedures. Should this occur, such defects may become part of the Company’s finished product which would ultimately be sold to customers. If such defects cause quality control problems in the manufacture of customers’ end products or cause direct or indirect damages to either the Company’s customers or the ultimate end users, the Company may be liable for increased production costs at its customers and both direct and indirect damages caused by the defective products. Such liability could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operation and financial condition.

11


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



In addition, suppliers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment are sometimes unable to deliver test and/or fabrication equipment to a schedule or equipment performance specification that meets the Company’s requirements. Delays in delivery of equipment needed for planned growth could adversely affect the Company’s ability to achieve its manufacturing and revenue plans in the future.

Protection of Proprietary Information


The Company relies upon both know-how and patents to develop and maintain its competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer the Company’s products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which the Company relies will be adequate to protect its interests. Other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and the Company might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if such patents are found to be valid. There can be no assurance that Maxim would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms. See “Item 1., Business — Patents, Licenses, and Other Intellectual Property Rights,” and “Item 1., Trends, Risks and Uncertainties — Intellectual Property Litigation and Claims.”

Intellectual Property Litigation and Claims


The Company is subject to various legal proceedings (See “Item 3., Legal Proceedings”) and other similar claims that involve possible infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Maxim is currently a defendant in a lawsuit brought by Linear Technology Corporation in which Linear alleges that Maxim has willfully infringed Linear Technology Corporation’s patent relating to control circuits and methods for maintaining high efficiencies over broad current ranges in a switching regulator circuit. Linear Technology Corporation seeks unspecified actual and treble monetary damages and a permanent injunction against Maxim. In addition to the above, from time to time, the Company receives notices that its products or processes may be infringing the intellectual property rights of others. See “Item 1., Business — Patents, Licenses, and Other Intellectual Property Rights.”


If one or more of the Company’s products or processes were determined to infringe any such intellectual property rights, a court might enjoin the Company from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. The Company would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights and/or to reengineer the Company’s products or processes in such a way as to avoid the alleged infringement. In any of those cases, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially reasonable terms or that the Company able to reengineer its products or processes to avoid infringement. An adverse result in litigation arising from such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of the Company’s products, a reduction or the elimination of the value of related inventories, and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s result of operations and financial condition.

Insurance


The Company has insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of its employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, long term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage, and fiduciary insurance coverage for employees and Company funds invested under the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act. The Company also has insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide coverage related to certain property insurance, employee, third party liability, worker’s compensation insurance, and automobile insurance. The Company is self-insured with respect to medical benefits for most of its domestic (United States) employees subject to stop loss insurance limitations. In addition, the Company has insurance contracts that provide officer and director liability coverage for the Company’s officers and directors. Other than the specific areas mentioned above, the Company is self-insured as it relates to most other risks and exposures. Based on management’s assessment and judgment, the Company has determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure these risks than to incur the insurance premium costs. The risks and exposures the Company self insures include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disaster, product defects, political risk, general liability, patent infringement, and employment issues. Should there be catastrophic loss from events

12


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


such as fires, explosions, or earthquakes, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which the Company is self-insured, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. See “Item 3., Legal Proceedings.”

Customer Supply Agreements


The Company enters into contracts with certain customers whereby the Company commits to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. Should the Company be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired at the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. In addition, the customer may incur lost revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues which may arise. Under the customer supply agreements, the Company may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. The Company tries to limit such liabilities. However, if products were not shipped on time, the Company may be liable for damages. Such liability, should it arise, may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operation and financial condition.

Foreign Trade and Currency Exchange


Many of the materials and manufacturing steps in the Company’s products are supplied by foreign companies or by the Company’s operations abroad, such as its test operations in the Philippines and Thailand. Approximately 67% of the Company’s net revenues in fiscal year 2003 were from foreign customers. Accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of the Company’s products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the United States and certain foreign countries. A change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect the Company’s foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. Currency exchange fluctuations could also increase the cost of components manufactured abroad and the cost of the Company’s products to foreign customers or decrease the costs of products from the Company’s foreign competitors. Although export sales are subject to government regulation, those regulations have not caused the Company significant difficulties to date. See “Item 1., Business — Manufacturing,” and “Item 1., Business — Sales and Marketing.”

Dependence on Key Personnel


The Company’s success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of its president, John F. Gifford, its other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly its experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on its ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for such employees is intense. The loss of the services of Mr. Gifford or several of the Company’s executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should the Company be unable to continue to attract qualified personnel.


The Company does not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of its officers or employees.

Additional Information


Our internet address is www.maxim-ic.com. We make available, via a link to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website, through our investor relations website located at www.maxim-ic.com/company/investor/sec.cfm, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. All such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. The Company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law. A copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is available without charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., 120 San Gabriel Drive, Sunnyvale, California 94086.