ITEM 1. BUSINESS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth under "Certain Factors Affecting Business, Operating Results, and Financial Condition" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the "Company," "Sigma," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Sigma Designs, Inc.

Overview

Sigma Designs was incorporated as a California corporation in 1982. We provide digital video decoding solutions for applications in full-screen full-motion video streaming and Digital Versatile Disk, or DVD, playback. We design, manufacture using subcontractors and market digital video decoding products for use with personal computers and other consumer information appliances. The emergence of digital video technology in the personal computer, or PC, market has dramatically changed the way in which users interact with computers. Digital video integrates different elements, such as sound, video, and web browsing to enhance the computing experience and deliver a heightened sense of realism. Our REALmagic product line incorporates Moving Picture Experts Group, or MPEG, technology.

Prior to MPEG's introduction, video on personal computers suffered from serious drawbacks. Motion pictures appeared jerky, and video was confined to small window sizes. MPEG, a defined International Standards Organization standard for video compression, eliminated many of those problems and revolutionized multimedia on the PC platform. For the first time, MPEG users could play back full-screen, full-motion video combined with stereo audio, even from a standard CD-ROM. A single CD-ROM using the MPEG-1 compression technique can store up to 74 minutes of full-motion video and audio. A single DVD-ROM using MPEG-2 compression can store 2 hour of movies.

With MPEG technology, producers can create, and users can enjoy an interactive, television-like experience on a desktop PC. The result is a significant new visual impact, thereby opening possibilities for a wide range of entertainment, education, training and business presentation applications. In April 1997, we announced our entry into the DVD market. A key element of the DVD specification is the use of MPEG-2 for digital video compression, a technology in which Sigma has established expertise. Our REALmagic EM8400 silicon chip solution is an extension of our MPEG expertise and provides a highly integrated solution for PC-DVD and consumer information appliance markets.

Partnership with Industry Leaders for Streaming Video

We have built strategic partnerships to develop and market network streaming video products with companies including ThirdSpace, Microsoft Corporation, Infovalue, Minerva, Concurrent, Silicon Graphics, Inc., and Kasena.

Partnership with Set-Top Box Suppliers

With the introduction of our REALmagic EM8400 silicon, we have established relationships with key suppliers to the emerging consumer Internet information appliance, or set-top box manufacturers and suppliers. These new set-top boxes support interactive capabilities and an Internet connection viewable on your television set, thereby bringing the Internet into the main television room in your home so that it can be more of a family experience. The relationships we have established can be grouped into three categories: graphical software, operating system software, and hardware including set-top box designers, manufacturers, and component suppliers. 

In the first category of graphical software, we have built relationships with Liberate Technologies and its TV Navigator software, Microsoft TV, and Stellar One's Connect TV system. In the second category of operating system software, we support Wind River's VX Works, Microsoft's Windows CE and NT, and Linux. In the third category of hardware, we have established design wins and significant relationships with Fujitsu-Siemens and their Activy set-top box, Acer and their CT 500, Kreatel and their Tonado 5-K consumer gateway, and DTVro and their Personal TV set-top box. In addition, we work very closely with CPU vendors National Semiconductor and Intel on a range of reference designs. 

Sigma Business Strategy

Our objective is to provide leading digital video decoding solutions that enable full-screen, full-motion, best quality video in commercial streaming applications and on internet set-top boxes, and consumer DVD players. To accomplish this goal, we need to promote widespread acceptance of REALmagic technology and solutions. The key parts of this strategy include:

Win More Set-Top Box Partnerships

As previously noted, we are actively working with several partners to promote use of our silicon solutions for video on demand and DVD playback in set-top box applications. We will continue to nurture these relationships in order to associate with the volume manufacturers of these set- top boxes and enable more opportunities for uses of our silicon solutions. So far, these relationships have focused on set-top box designs that provide Internet connections via conventional dial up or Digital Subscriber Line, or DSL, technology. We will also seek out new relationships with companies in the cable and satellite broadcast markets in order to deploy our silicon solutions in their markets. 

Further Penetrate the Industry Market for Streaming Video

Our systems integration sales team will continue to work with our network of system integrators, national distributors, and special Value Added Resellers, or VARs, to distribute our high-end REALmagic NetStream card. This includes specific application identification and development in close concert with our distribution channel. In Europe and Asia Pacific, we intend to continue to expand our relationship with distributors as well as OEMs and VARs. In addition, we will seek to sell silicon solutions to add-on card manufacturers that provide their own streaming video products.

Introduce New Generations of Decoder Chipsets 

A significant aspect of our product strategy is to increase the sale of chipsets featuring our REALmagic Video Streaming Technology while continuing to develop newer versions and generations of products, including chipsets for PCs, set-top boxes, consumer DVD progressive players, and HDTV applications. We seek to continue to offer consumers better-featured and low-priced products over time.

REALmagic Products 

We currently offer a complete family of REALmagic products including:


REALmagic NetStream 2000TV―In November 2000, we announced in a new addition to our REALmagic NetStream family of hardware-based streaming video solutions. Our NetStream 2000 TV is a PCI-based add-in card that provides high performance MPEG 1/MPEG 2 decoding and software drivers to play streaming video or DVD titles on mainstream PCs with merged graphics and video overlay.


REALmagic EM8400-In September 1999, we introduced a new chip that sets the stage for our entry into consumer applications. Our first MPEG-2 decoder to upconvert DVD video to progressive HDTV formats; the EM8400 can be used for consumer home theater DVD players, streaming video client applications, and Web DVD set-top boxes. 


REALmagic NetStream 2000-In September 1999, we announced NetStream 2000, based on our EM8400 decoder silicon chip. This product shipped in January 2000. A product in the NetStream family includes specialized hardware and software developed specifically for delivering video to corporate desktops, multiple dwelling units, hospitality markets, kiosks and retailtainment, and can be used for both video on demand and broadcast video playback. NetStream 2000 is an MPEG-2 playback card offering full plug and play installation and compatibility with a broad range of third-party applications, including video servers for video on demand, MPEG encoders for stored or real- time playback, satellite delivery systems, streaming video playback systems and scores of customizable interactive training titles.


REALmagic DVR (Digital Video Recorder)-In April 1999, we announced REALmagic DVR for creating DVD titles. This product shipped in January 2000. The REALmagic DVR is a packaged solution for authoring DVD titles using your PC, a DVD-RAM drive, and DVD write-able media. The package includes editing software that helps you set the flow and sequence of the video content, authoring software that lets you add titles and interactive capabilities, and our own DVD station software for playback. This product is a low cost, high quality solution for corporate environments, educational applications, and the so-called prosumer who want to author their own DVDs.


REALmagic EM8300―In March 1998, we announced the introduction of the EM8300 REALmagic DVD/MPEG-2/MPEG-1 decoder Integrated Circuit ("IC"). Integrating virtually all funcations of a DVD decoder on one chip, the EM8300 is designed to provide a highly integrated, cost effective vehicle for high-quality DVD. The EM8300 feature set draws on our industry experience in the DVD/MPEG-2 market with earlier designs such the REALmagic Holloywood decoder card.


REALmagic Hollywood Plus--- In April 1997, we announced our entry into the DVD market. The REALmagic Hollywood Plus MPEG-2 playback card turns a PC into a full-featured DVD player that exploits many of the digital video and digital surround sound capabilities of the DVD format and uncoming MPEG-2 interactive titles. The REALmagic Hollywood Plus DVD/MPEG-2 playback card displays flicker-free video at full-screen resolution, making video watching on a PC a new experience. Movies can be either displayed on the PC monitor or on a large-screen TV. We even have a remote control system that allows one to control the playback features of the DVD station software included with the cards, via an infra-red communication link.

REALmagic Reference Designs

We build REALmagic reference designs, which are end-user prototype designs showing how our silicon solutions integrate into complex consumer appliances. These reference designs serve several purposes, including proof of concept to prospective customers, as well as an invaluable research and development experience for our engineers who develop the integrated end solution. This process always gives us ideas for what to incorporate into our next generation solutions.


REALmagic Set-Top Box Reference Design-In April 1999, we announced our next-generation set-top box reference design, the STB 2000. This unique convergence appliance represents a new wave of flexibility, performance, and cost reduction that is intended to be made available through telcos, ISPs, satellite providers, and system integrators that are deploying high bandwidth, digital video-ready Internet services. Our design incorporates the two primary functions our decoder silicon enables, that is, DVD playback and video on demand.


REALmagic Progressive DVD Player Reference Design-In January 2000, we announced our progressive DVD player reference design. This new progressive DVD player reference design is a low-cost solution for producing a complete, standalone DVD player for both traditional interlaced televisions as well as progressive scan output for HDTV and high definition projects.

Marketing and Sales

We currently distribute our products through sales to national and regional distributors, VARs and OEMs in the U.S. and throughout the world. Our U.S. distributor is Ingram Micro, Inc., and our OEMs include Utobia, Pacific Magtron, Lung Hwa Electronics Co., Ltd., Formosa Industrial Computing. Our international distributors are strategically located in many countries around the world.

We generally maintain products for distribution through corporate markets based on forecasts rather than firm purchase orders. Additionally, we generally acquire products for sale to our OEM customers only after receiving purchase orders from such customers, which purchase orders are typically cancelable without substantial penalty from such OEM customers. We currently place noncancelable orders to purchase semiconductor products from our suppliers on a twelve- to sixteen-week lead-time basis. Consequently, if, as a result of inaccurate forecasts or canceled purchase orders, anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, requiring significant working capital and resulting in severe pressure on our financial condition. One customer accounted for 15% of our net revenues in fiscal 2001.

Sales to distributors are typically subject to contractual rights of inventory rotation and price protection. Regardless of particular contractual rights, the failure of one or more distributors or OEMs to achieve sustained sell-through of REALmagic products could result in product returns or delayed or uncollectable receivables, contributing to significant fluctuations in our operating results.

Research and Development 

As of January 31, 2001, we had a staff of 51 research and development personnel. The research and development personnel conduct all of our product development with the assistance of a number of independent contractors and consultants. We are focusing our development efforts primarily on MPEG decoder products, including new and improved versions of REALmagic MPEG chipsets and cost reduction processes.

To achieve and maintain technological leadership, we must continue to make technological advancements in the areas of MPEG video and audio compression and decompression. These advancements include maintaining compatibility with emerging standards and multiple platforms, making improvements to the REALmagic architecture, and developing enhancements to the REALmagic Application Programming Interface (API).

We cannot assure you that we will be able to make any such advancements in the REALmagic MPEG technology or, if they are made, that we will be able to market such advancements to maintain profitability. 

During fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, our research and development expenses were $7,384,000, $6,397,000, and $5,678,000 respectively. We plan to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development of future generations of MPEG and other multimedia products. 

Competition

The market for MPEG decoder products is highly competitive. Companies such as C-Cube Microsystems have a high profile in the industry. Although we do not believe that any products sold by a third party are in direct competition with REALmagic decoding silicon in terms of price and performance, the possibility that other companies with more marketing and financial resources may develop a competitive product may inhibit the wide acceptance of REALmagic technology. We believe that many computer product manufacturers are developing MPEG products that will compete directly with REALmagic products in the near future.

We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market for MPEG decoder products include time to market for new product introductions, product performance, compatibility with industry standards, price, and marketing and distribution resources. We believe that we compete most favorably with respect to time to market, product performance and price of our REALmagic products.

Licenses, Patents and Trademarks

We continually seek patent protection for certain software and hardware features in current and future versions of REALmagic. We currently have ten pending patent applications for our REALmagic technology. Fifteen patents have been issued to us. We cannot assure you that more patents will be issued or that such patents, even if issued, will provide adequate protection for our competitive position. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through agreements with customers, suppliers and employees and other security measures. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, we cannot assure you that these measures will be successful.

Manufacturing 

To reduce overhead expenses, along with capital and staffing requirements, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to fulfill all of our manufacturing needs, including chipset manufacture and board-level assembly. All of the chips used by us to develop our decoding products are manufactured by outside suppliers and foundries. Each of these suppliers is a sole source of supply to us of the respective chips produced by such supplier.

Our reliance on independent suppliers involves several risks, including the absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Any delay or interruption in the supply of any of the components required for the production of REALmagic products could seriously harm our sales of products and, thus, our operating results.

Backlog

Since our customers typically expect quick deliveries, we seek to ship products within a few weeks of receipt of a purchase order. However, the customer may reschedule delivery of products or cancel the purchase order entirely without significant penalty. Historically, our backlog has not been reflective of future sales. We also expect that in the near term, our backlog will continue to be not indicative of future sales

Employees

As of January 31, 2001, we had 98 full-time employees, including 51 in research and development, 23 in marketing, sales and support, 8 in operations, and 16 in finance and administration.

Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and management personnel, who are in great demand. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Certain Factors Affecting Business, Operating Results, and Financial Condition

You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.

If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.

We have a history of operating losses and we could sustain future losses. We can not assure you that we will be able profitable and if we continue to lose money, our business may not be financially viable.

We incurred significant operating losses in fiscal 1995, 1996, 1998 and 2001 and had negative cash flow in fiscal 1995 and 1998. Since our introduction of the REALmagic MPEG product line in November 1993, we have made significant investments in marketing and technological innovation for our REALmagic products. As a result of our investments, we experienced significant losses through fiscal 1996. Fiscal 1995, 1996 and 1998 also included significant losses associated with products other than those related to our REALmagic technology. Fiscal 2001 included significant loss associated with the decline in demand of our REALmagic products. Since our inception through January 31, 2001, our total accumulated deficit is $46,057,000. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our REALmagic products in substantial quantities or generate significant revenues from those sales. We cannot assure you that we will not incur operating losses in any future fiscal quarter or fiscal year. 

If we fail to comply with or obtain waivers for covenants under our loan obligations, our financial condition will be serious harmed.

We have an Amended and Restated Business Loan Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, dated October 31, 2000. Under the Agreement we gave two secured Promissory Notes in total principal amounts of $12 million and $6 million to Silicon Valley Bank, under which we may borrow as needed. Under the Agreement and the Notes, we are subject to certain covenants that, among other things, we are required to maintain tangible net worth plus subordinated debt of at least $25,000,000, quarterly net income, and certain financial ratios. Since July 1997, we have, on occasion, been in violation some of the covenants and have obtained waivers releasing us from our obligation to meet these covenants as of previous dates. We may need a waiver for the quarter ending April 30, 2001 or for future periods. We cannot assure you that Silicon Valley Bank will grant these waivers. If we do not meet this covenant, and if we do not obtain waivers, the loans may be in default. If we are in default, then the lender could accelerate payments on the Notes and we could suffer serious harm to our business, financial condition and prospects.

Marketing risks and volatility of OEM customer sales and resale distribution may harm our business.

Our ability to increase sales, achieve profitability and maintain REALmagic as an industry digital video decoding standard depends substantially on our ability to achieve a sustained high level of sales to new OEM customers. We have not executed volume purchase agreements with any of our customers. Our customers are not under any obligation to purchase any minimum quantity of our products. We have not achieved bundling agreements with many OEM customers to ensure the success of our REALmagic product line. Also, even if we achieve new design wins, we cannot assure you that manufacturers will purchase our products in substantial volumes. Sales to any particular OEM customer are subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter and to severe price pressures by competitors. In addition, three of our customers accounted for 15%, 14% and 11% of our net sales, respectively, in fiscal 2001. Any reductions in those sales could seriously harm our business. Based on our experience in the industry, we expect that our actual sales to OEM customers will experience significant fluctuations. Also, estimates of future sales to any particular customer or groups of customers are inherently uncertain. 

Our ability to achieve profitability also depends on a substantial increase in the sales of REALmagic products through domestic and international distributors for resale through corporate markets. Sales to such distributors are typically subject to contractual rights of inventory rotation or price protection. The failure of distributors to achieve sustained sell-through of REALmagic products could result in product returns or delayed or uncollectable receivables. We recently faced sales returns from one of our distributor in the amount of approximately $1.4 million and provided for a bad debt allowance in the amount of approximately $2.2 million. This could contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining or maintaining a significant market for our REALmagic products.

Failure to keep pace with technological change will seriously harm our business.

Our success depends, among other things, on our ability to achieve and maintain technological leadership and to remain competitive in terms of price and product performance.

To have technological leadership, we must continue to make technological advancements and research and development investments in the area of MPEG video and audio decoding. These advancements include the following:

compatibility with emerging standards and multiple platforms; 

improvements to the REALmagic architecture; and 
enhancements to the REALmagic application programming interface.

We cannot assure you that we will be able to make these advancements to our REALmagic technology. If we do make these advances, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve and maintain technological leadership. Any material failure by us or OEMs and software developers to develop or incorporate any required improvement could adversely affect the continued acceptance of our technology and the introduction and sale of future products based on our technology. We cannot assure you that products or technologies developed by others will not render obsolete our technology and the products based on our technology.

To be competitive, we must anticipate the needs of the market and successfully develop and introduce innovative new products in a timely fashion. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design of our new products, have these products manufactured at acceptable manufacturing yields, or obtain significant purchase orders for these products. The introduction of new products may adversely affect sales of existing products and contribute to fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Our introduction of new products also requires that we carefully manage our inventory to avoid inventory obsolescence. We recently had to write off our inventory in the amount of approximately $1.9 million because of a decline in demand for certain of our PC-related products. In addition, new products, as opposed to more mature products, typically have higher initial component costs. This higher cost could result in downward pressures on our gross margins.

Our industry is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will not be financially viable.

The market for multimedia products is highly competitive and is also influenced by imbedded processors provided by multiple companies. Processors have, in recent years, included increased graphics functionality. Other companies with more experience and financial resources may develop a competitive product that could inhibit future growth of our REALmagic technology. Increased competition may be generated from several major computer product manufacturers that have developed products and technologies that could compete directly with REALmagic products. These competitors include:


SGS Thompson Microelectronics; 
IBM Corporation; 
Zoran Corporation; 
LSI Logic/C-Cube; 
ESS Technology; 
Broadcom; 
TriMedia Technologies.

In addition, Intel computer CPU chips processors have become more powerful, such that video decoding could be done in software. Most of our competitors have substantial experience and expertise in audio, video and multimedia technology and in producing and selling consumer products through retail distribution and OEM channels. These companies also have substantially greater engineering, marketing and financial resources than we have. Our competitors could form cooperative relationships that could present formidable competition to us. We cannot assure you that our REALmagic technology will achieve commercial success or that it will compete effectively against other interactive multimedia products, services and technologies that currently exist, are under development, or may be announced by competitors.

Our net sales are dependent on market demand for multimedia products. If demand for our products continues to decline, our financial condition will be seriously harmed.

Our business strategy is, and has been, to focus on REALmagic products by investing heavily in MPEG technology. In the fiscal year ended January 31, 2001, sales of PC-DVD or video streaming decoding products accounted for virtually all of our net sales. If market demand for digital video decoding products continues to decline, our financial condition will be seriously harmed. In addition, one customer based in Taiwan accounted for 14%, 26%, and 28% of our total revenues in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999. One customer based in Singapore accounted for 15%, 13% and 3% of our total revenues in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999. One customer based in Japan accounted for 11%, 2% and 1% of our total revenues in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999. 

Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors and any of these factors could adversely affect our stock price.

Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. This fluctuation is due to a number of factors, including the following and others:

our new product introductions and product introductions by our competitors; 

market acceptance of our products by OEMs, software developers and end users; 

the success of our promotional programs; 

gains or losses of our significant customers; 

shifts in demand for technology embodied in our products; 

reductions in selling prices; 

inventory obsolescence; 

write-downs of accounts receivable; 

an interrupted or inadequate supply of semiconductor chips; 

our ability to protect our intellectual property; and 

loss of our key personnel; 

technical problems causing shipping delays; and 

availability of third-party manufacturing capcity. 

In addition, sales to OEM customers are subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. This variability depends on OEMs' timing and release of products that incorporate our REALmagic technology, experience with sales of these products and inventory levels.

The market for consumer electronics products is characterized by significant seasonal swings in demand. Demand typically peaks in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. We expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the sales of REALmagic products in the future. The demand for our products will depend in part on the success of digital video technology. In light of this, our revenues may vary with the availability of and demand for DVD titles. This demand may increase or decrease as a result of a number of factors that cannot be predicted, such as consumer preferences and product announcements by competitors.

Announcements of directly competing products will likely have a negative effect on our operating results. Based on our experience, we believe that a substantial portion of our shipments will occur in the third month of a quarter, with significant shipments completed in the latter part of the third month. This shipment pattern may cause our operating results to be difficult to predict. Currently, we place noncancellable orders to purchase semiconductor products from our foundries with a long lead time. If, there is a result of inaccurate forecasts or cancelled purchase orders, our anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, our inventory levels could be disproportionately high. This could require significant working capital and harm our operating results.

We face many risks because of our reliance heavy on certain manufacturers and suppliers that could harm our business and financial condition.

Our REALmagic products and components are presently manufactured by outside suppliers or foundries. We do not have long-term contracts with these suppliers. We conduct business with our suppliers on a written purchase order basis. Our reliance on independent suppliers subjects us to several risks. These risks include:

the absence of adequate capacity; 

the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to, certain process technologies; and 

reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. 

We obtain some of our components from a single source. In fiscal 2000 we experienced a delay and interruption from our source due to the earthquake in Taiwan in October 1999. We estimate that this event resulted in lost sales of about $2.5 million. Other delays or interruptions have not occurred to date, but any delay or interruption in the supply of any of the components required for the production of our REALmagic silicon or our REALmagic multimedia cards currently obtained from a single source could have a material adverse impact on our sales of REALmagic products, and on our business.

We must provide our suppliers with sufficient lead-time to meet our forecasted manufacturing objectives. Any failure to properly forecast such quantities could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce REALmagic products in sufficient quantities. We cannot assure you that our forecasts regarding new product demand will be accurate, particularly because we sell our REALmagic products on a purchase order basis. Manufacturing REALmagic chipsets is a complex process, and we may experience short-term difficulties in obtaining timely deliveries. This could affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. Any such delay in delivering products in the future could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Also, should any of our major suppliers become unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture our key components in required volumes, we will have to identify and qualify acceptable additional suppliers. This qualification process could take up to three months or longer and additional sources of supply may not be in a position to satisfy our requirements on a timely basis.

In the past, we have experienced production delays and other difficulties, and we could experience similar problems in the future. In addition, product defects may occur and they may escape identification at the factory. This could result in unanticipated costs, cancellations, deferrals of purchase orders, or costly recall of products from customer sites.

Loss of key personnel could cause our business to suffer.

Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, marketing, sales and management personnel. Given the complexity of REALmagic technology, we are dependent on our ability to retain and motivate highly skilled engineers involved in the ongoing hardware and software development of REALmagic products. These engineers are required to refine the existing hardware system and application programming interface and to introduce enhancements in future applications. The multimedia PC industry is characterized by high employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. Despite incentives we provide, our current employees may not continue to work for us, and if additional personnel were required for our operations, we may not able to obtain the services of additional personnel necessary for our growth. 

We face risks related to intellectual property rights.

Our ability to compete may be affected by our ability to protect our proprietary information. We currently hold fifteen patents covering the technology underlying the REALmagic products. We have filed certain patent applications and are in the process of preparing others. We cannot assure that any additional patents for which we have applied will be issued or that any issued patents will provide meaningful protection of our product innovations. Like other emerging multimedia companies, we rely primarily on trade secrets and technological know-how in the conduct of our business. We also rely, in part, on copyright law to protect our proprietary rights with respect to our REALmagic technology.  We use measures such as confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. These methods of protecting our intellectual property may not be sufficient.

The electronics industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop noninfringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation, and we may not be successful in such development or in obtaining such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, patent disputes in the electronics industry have often been settled through cross- licensing arrangements. Because we do not yet have a large portfolio of issued patents, we may not be able to settle an alleged patent infringement claim through a cross-licensing arrangement.

Our international operations are subject to certain risks.

During fiscal 2001, 2000, and 1999, sales to international customers accounted for approximately 65%, 67%, and 71% of our net sales, respectively. We anticipate that sales to international customers, including sales of REALmagic products, will continue to account for a substantial percentage of our total net revenues. Also, some of the foundries that manufacture our products and components are located in Asia. Overseas sales and purchases to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars.

Due to the concentration of international sales and the manufacturing capacity in Asia, we are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally. These risks include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and fluctuations in the U.S. dollar that could increase the sales price in local currencies of our products in international markets, or make it difficult for us to obtain price reductions from its foundries. We do not currently engage in any hedging activities to reduce our exposure to exchange rate risks. If and when we engage in transactions in foreign currencies, our results of operations could be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations.

We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales to the Asia Pacific region. This region of the world is subject to increased levels of economic instability, and this instability could seriously harm our results of operations.

Our stock price may be volatile.

The market of our Common Stock has been subject to significant volatility. This volatility is expected to continue. The following factors, among others, may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock:

our announcement of the introduction of new products; 

our competitors' announcements of the introduction of new products; and 

market conditions in the technology, entertainment and emerging growth company sectors. 

The stock market has experienced, and is currently experiencing, volatility that particularly affects the market prices of equity securities of many high technology and development stage companies, such as those in the electronics industry. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, could decrease the price of our Common Stock.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

Our executive officers and directors and their ages as of April 1, 2001 are as follows:


Name
 Age
 Position
 
Thinh Q. Tran
 47
 Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer
 
Silvio Perich
 52
 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales
 
Jacques Martinella
 45
 Vice President, Engineering
 
Kenneth Lowe
 45
 Vice President, Business Development
 
Kit Tsui
 51
 Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary
 
William J. Almon (1)(2)
 68
 Director
 
William Wang (1)(2)
 37
 Director
 
Julien Nguyen (1) 
 44
 Director
 


_________________ 


Member of the Audit Committee


Member of the Compensation Committee

Mr. Tran, a founder of Sigma, has served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Directors since February 1982. Prior to joining Sigma, Mr. Tran was employed by Amdahl Corporation and Trilogy Systems Corporation, both of which were involved in the IBM-compatible mainframe computer market.

Mr. Perich joined Sigma in September 1985 as Director, Sales. In September 1992, Mr. Perich became Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales. Mr. Perich was a co-founder of Costar Incorporated, a manufacturer's representative organization for high technology products, where he served as partner from October 1979 to September 1985. From September 1972 until September 1979, Mr. Perich served in several sales management roles at Siliconix Inc, a specialty semiconductor manufacturer.

Mr. Martinella joined Sigma in May 1994 as Director, VLSI Engineering. In December 1995, Mr. Martinella became Vice President, Engineering. From June 1990 to April 1994, Mr. Martinella served in engineering and management positions at Weitek, a microchip manufacturer. In addition, Mr. Martinella was an engineer at National Semiconductor, a semiconductor manufacturer, from June 1982 to June 1990.

Mr. Lowe joined Sigma in May 2000 as Vice President, Marketing. In December 2000, Mr. Lowe became Vice President, Business Development. Prior to joining Sigma, Mr. Lowe served as the Director of Multimedia Marketing for Cadence Design Systems. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Lowe served as the Vice President of Marketing for Chrontel. Prior to 1996, Mr. Lowe held various marketing management positions Sierra Semiconductor, Datquest, Personal CAD Systems, Performix and Gould-Biomation. In the late 1980's, Mr. Lowe served as Product Marketing Director of Sigma.

Ms. Tsui joined Sigma in November 1982 as its Accounting Manager. Ms. Tsui was promoted to Director of Finance in February 1990, acting Chief Financial Officer and Secretary in December 1996, Chief Accounting Officer in January 2000 and Chief Financial Officer in January 2001.

Mr. Almon has served as Director of Sigma since April 1994. Mr. Almon also serves as a Director of Read-Rite Corporation, Netfish Technologies Inc. and HDI Inc. Most recently, Mr. Almon served as Chairman of the Board of Internet Image, an internet software company that was merged with Intraware Inc. in October 1999. In May 1994, Mr. Almon founded and served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of StorMedia, Inc., a manufacturer of thin film disks. From December 1989 until February 1993, Mr. Almon served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Conner Peripherals, Inc., a manufacturer of computer disk drives and storage management devices. Prior to 1987, Mr. Almon spent 30 years with IBM Corporation, holding executive positions in both software and hardware management, most recently as Vice President, Low End Storage Products.

Mr. Wang became a Director of Sigma in October 1995. From January 1995 to the present, Mr. Wang has served as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President of Princeton Graphic Systems (a supplier of computer monitors) and has served since January 1996 as a Director of Diva LABS. From 1990 to April 1997, Mr. Wang served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of MAG Innovision Co., Inc., Ltd. of Taiwan, a supplier of computer monitors. From 1986 until 1990, Mr. Wang worked at Tatung Company of America in the Video Display Division.

Mr. Julien Nguyen became a Director of Sigma in May, 2000. Mr. Nguyen is a General Partner of Global Catayst Partners, a corporate venture fund. Mr. Nguyen is the cofounder and Chairman of ezlogin.com. Prior to exlogin.com, Mr. Nguyen founded Novita Communications and served as its CEO. From February 1995 to October 1996, Mr. Nguyen served as Co-Chairman and Chief Technical Officer of Sigma. From August 1993 until January 1995, he served as Vice President, Engineering and Chief Technical Officer of the Company. From May 1992 until October 1993, Mr. Nguyen was President and Chief Executive Officer of E- Motions, which was acquired by the Company in 1993. Prior to founding E-Motions, Mr. Nguyen worked at Radious Inc. as Director of Product Development and was in charge of all product development for five years. Mr. Nguyen also serves on the board of VM Labs.
