ITEM 1.     BUSINESS 

 

Overview 

 

We are one of the world’s largest “fabless” semiconductor companies, supplying graphics and media communications processors and related software that are integral to personal computers, or PCs, professional workstations and digital entertainment platforms. We provide an architecturally compatible “top-to-bottom” family of award-winning graphics processing units, or GPUs, which set the standard for performance, quality, compatibility and features for a broad range of personal computing platforms. Our graphics and communications processors are used for a wide variety of applications, including games, digital content creation, personal digital image editing, business productivity and product and industrial design. Our mission is to be the most important visual computing company in the world. We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. 

 

Interactive 3D graphics are integral to various computing and entertainment platforms such as workstations, consumer and commercial desktop PCs, Internet appliances and video gaming consoles. 3D graphics is a powerful broadband medium that enables the communication and visualization of information, whether it is in professional applications like digital content creation and computer assisted design and computer assisted manufacturing, or CAD/CAM, or commercial applications like financial analysis and business-to-business collaboration or simply surfing the Internet or playing games. The visually engaging and interactive nature of 3D graphics responds to consumers’ demands for a convincing simulation of reality beyond what is possible with traditional 2D graphics. We expect that the fundamental interactive capability and distributive nature of 3D graphics will make it the primary broadband medium for a digitally connected world. 

 

We believe that a PC’s interactive 3D graphics capability represents one of the primary means users differentiate among various systems. PC users today can easily differentiate the quality of graphics and prefer PCs that provide a superior visual experience. These factors have dramatically increased demand for 3D graphics processors. Mercury Research estimates that 188.6 million 3D graphics processors were sold worldwide in 2002 and that 275.3 million will be sold worldwide in 2006. 

 

Continuing advancements in semiconductor process and manufacturing have made available more powerful and affordable microprocessors and 3D graphics processors, both of which are essential to deliver interactive 3D graphics to the PC market. Additionally, the industry has broadly adopted Microsoft Corporation’s Direct3D Application Programming Interface, or API, and Silicon Graphics Inc.’s, or SGI’s, OpenGL API, which serve as common and standard languages between software applications and 3D graphics processors, allowing the development of numerous 3D applications and resulting in increased consumer demand. 

 

We believe that a substantial market opportunity exists for providers of performance 3D graphics processors, particularly as performance 3D graphics have become an increasingly important requirement and point of differentiation for PC original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. Consumer PC users demand a compelling visual experience and compatibility with existing and next-generation 3D graphics applications at an affordable price. Application developers require high-performance, standards-based 3D architectures with broad market penetration. Since graphics is a key point of differentiation, PC OEMs continually seek to incorporate leading-edge, cost-effective 3D graphics solutions to build award-winning products. We believe that providers of interactive 3D graphics solutions compete based on their ability to leverage their technology expertise to simultaneously meet the needs of end users, application developers and OEMs. 

 

Our Products 

 

We have five major product families: GeForce, nForce, GeForce Go, Quadro and TNT2. In addition, we sell a two-processor chipset for use in the Xbox video game console. Our entire product line provides superior 

 

2 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
processing and rendering power at competitive prices and is designed to deliver the maximum performance from industry standards such as Microsoft’s DirectX API and SGI’s OpenGL API on Windows operating systems and Linux platforms. 

 

GeForce.    The GeForce family represents our desktop GPUs. In November 2002, we introduced our newest flagship GPU, the GeForce FX. The GeForce FX is our first, fully programmable cinematic GPU, and is also our first to be manufactured using 0.13-micron process technology. The GeForce FX is one of the PC industry’s most complex application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, containing over 125 million transistors and is the first GPU to reach processor clock speeds up to 500MHz and memory clock speeds up to 1 GHz. The GeForce FX is designed for the enthusiast consumer product line of the PC market. The GeForce family, which also includes the GeForce2, GeForce3 and GeForce4, is designed to deliver the highest performance and features for every price product line ranging from mainstream to performance PCs. 

 

nForce.    The nForce family represents our platform processors for desktop PCs. We define a platform processor as a chipset that can off-load system functions, such as audio processing and network communications, and perform these operations independently from the host central processing unit, or CPU. The nForce family is the industry’s first highly-integrated platform processor to incorporate a comprehensive set of multimedia capabilities, such as 2D, 3D, DVD, HDTV, Dolby Digital audio playback and fast broadband and networking communications. nForce is a two-chip solution, which includes either a System Platform Processor, or SPP, or Integrated Graphics Processor, or IGP, combined with a Media Communications Processor, or MCP. The nForce configuration is determined by the OEM or system builder. The nForce family is designed to be compatible with Advanced Micro Devices’ AthlonXP and Duron microprocessors. In July 2002, we introduced our second generation platform processor, the nForce2. The nForce2 was the industry’s first platform processor to support dual DDR400 memory, simultaneous local-area network, or LAN, and wide-area network, or WAN, up to six high-speed USB 2.0 and three FireWire (IEEE 1394a) ports and our GeForce4 MX graphics core with all processing done only in the IGP. 

 

GeForce Go.    The GeForce Go family represents our mobile GPUs, which consists of the GeForce4 Go, GeForce2 Go, Quadro4 GL Go and Quadro2 Go GPUs. These are designed to deliver desktop graphics performance and features for multiple notebook configurations from desktop replacements, performance notebooks and thin-and-lights to mobile workstations. The GeForce Go products are designed to serve the needs of both corporate and consumer users. The Quadro Go products are designed to serve the needs of workstation professionals in the area of product design and digital content creation. The Quadro2 Go is the industry’s first Independent Software Vendor, or ISV, certified driver for notebooks. In November 2002, our GeForce2 Go mobile GPU was designed into HP’s Compaq Tablet PC TC1000, one of the industry’s first tablet notebook PCs. In January 2003, the GeForce4 Go was designed into Apple Computer’s new PowerBook notebooks, marking the first time NVIDIA’s mobile GPUs were incorporated into an Apple mobile platform. 

 

Quadro.    NVIDIA’s Quadro branded products are robust, high-performance workstation solutions for the professional user that are available for the high-end, mid-range, entry-level and multi-display product lines. The NVIDIA Quadro family, which consists of the Quadro FX, Quadro4 XGL and the Quadro NVS workstation solutions are designed to meet the needs of a number of workstation applications such as industrial product design, digital content creation, non-linear video editing, scientific and financial visualization, general purpose business and financial trading. NVIDIA Quadro products are fully certified for all professional workstation applications, and are designed to deliver the graphics performance and precision required by professional applications. 

 

TNT2.    The TNT2 family of graphics processors delivers 3D and 2D graphics at affordable prices, making them the popular graphics hardware for enterprise and consumer value PCs. The TNT2 family has been in production since April 1999. 

 

Xbox.    The Xbox processors feature the dual-processing architecture of NVIDIA’s XGPU and MCP to power the video game system’s standout graphics, audio and networking capabilities. The XGPU is a 

 

3 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
programmable 3D processor that contains more that 60 million transistors. The amount of computing horsepower is dedicated to one goal—to create stunning, never-before-seen imagery. The MCP is based on two powerful digital signal processors with 4 billion operations per second dedicated to 3D audio and network processing. The MCP performs the processing for the broadband networking functions and high-speed peripherals. In addition, it is the most sophisticated audio processor ever built. 

 

Our products are currently designed into products offered by virtually every leading branded PC OEM, including Acer Inc., Apple Computer, Inc., Dell Computer Corporation, eMachines Inc., Fujitsu-Siemens Computers, Gateway Inc., Hewlett Packard Company, IBM, Micron Electronics Inc., NEC Corporation, Packard Bell NEC Inc., Silicon Graphics Inc., and Sony Corporation, as well as leading contract equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, including Celestica Hong Kong Ltd., Mitac International Corporation, Micro-Star International Co. Ltd., and Sanmina SCI Corporation, and leading motherboard and add-in board manufacturers, including Abit Computer Corporation, ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Canopus Corporation, Gainward Co. Ltd., Gigabyte Technology Co. Ltd., Guillemot Corporation, LeadTek Research, Inc. and PNY Technologies. 

 

Our Strategy 

 

We design our GPUs, platform processors and graphics processors to enable PC OEMs, system builders, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers to build award-winning products by delivering state-of-the-art interactive 3D graphics capability, while maintaining affordable prices. We believe that by developing 3D graphics solutions that provide superior performance and address the key requirements of the PC market, we will accelerate the adoption of 3D graphics throughout this market. We combine scalable architectural technology with mass market economies-of-scale to deliver a complete family of products that spans workstations to low-cost value PCs. 

 

Our objective is to be the leading supplier of performance GPUs, platform processors and graphics processors for a broad range of PCs, workstations, laptops, video game consoles, Internet appliances, handhelds and any future computing device with a display. Our current focus is on the PC, workstation, mobile laptop and game console product lines, and we plan to expand into other product lines. Our strategy to achieve this objective includes the following key elements: 

 

Build Award-Winning, Architecturally-Compatible 3D Graphics Product Families for the PC and Digital Entertainment Platforms.    Our strategy is to achieve market share leadership in the PC and digital entertainment platforms by providing award-winning performance at every price point. By developing 3D graphics solutions that provide superior performance and address the key requirements of these platforms, we believe that we will accelerate the adoption of 3D graphics. As part of our strategy, we have closely aligned our product development with Direct3D and OpenGL, which we believe maximizes third-party software support. 

 

Target Leading OEMs and System Builders.    Our strategy is to enable our leading OEM and major system builder customers to differentiate their products in a highly competitive marketplace by using our 3D graphics processors. We believe that design wins with these industry leaders provide market validation of our products, increase brand awareness and enhance our ability to penetrate additional leading customer accounts. In addition, we believe that close relationships with OEMs will allow us to better anticipate and address customer needs with future generations of our products. Our products are currently designed into products offered by virtually every leading branded PC OEM, including Acer, Apple, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu-Siemens, Gateway, HP, IBM, micronpc.com, NEC, Packard Bell NEC, SGI and Sony. 

 

Sustain Technology and Roadmap Leadership in 3D Graphics.    We are focused on leveraging our advanced engineering capabilities to accelerate the quality and performance of 3D graphics in PCs. A fundamental aspect of our strategy is to actively recruit the best 3D graphics engineers in the industry, and we believe that we have assembled an exceptionally experienced and talented engineering team. Our research and development strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations of graphics processors using independent design teams. As we have in the past, we intend to leverage this strategy to achieve new levels of 

 

4 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
graphics features and performance, enabling our customers to achieve award-winning performance in their products. 

 

Increase Market Share.    We believe that substantial market share will be important to achieving success in the 3D graphics business. We intend to achieve a leading share of the market by devoting substantial resources to building award-winning families of products for a wide range of applications. 

 

Leverage Our Expertise in Digital Multimedia.    We believe the synergy created by the combination of 3D graphics and the Internet will fundamentally change the way people work, learn, communicate and play. We believe that our expertise in 3D graphics and system architecture positions us to help drive this transformation. We are leveraging our expertise in the processing and transmission of high-bandwidth digital media to develop products designed to address the requirements of high-bandwidth concurrent multimedia. 

 

Sales and Marketing 

 

Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is a key part of our objective to become the leading supplier of performance 3D graphics processors for desktop PCs. Our sales and marketing teams work closely with PC OEMs, system integrators, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and industry trendsetters, collectively our Channel, to define product features, performance, price and timing of new products. Members of our sales team have a high level of technical expertise and product and industry knowledge to support a competitive and complex design win process. We also employ a highly skilled team of application engineers to assist the Channel in designing, testing and qualifying system designs that incorporate our products. We believe that the depth and quality of our design support are key to improving the Channels’ time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction within the Channel and fostering relationships that encourage customers to use the next generation of our products. 

 

In the 3D graphics market, the sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading PC OEMs and major system integrators and supporting the product design into high volume production with key motherboard manufacturers and add-in board manufacturers. These design wins in turn influence the retail and system integrator channel that is serviced by add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. Our distribution strategy is to work with a number of leading independent CEMs, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and stocking representatives, each of which has relationships with a broad range of major PC OEMs and/or strong brand name recognition in the retail channel. Currently, we sell a significant majority of our graphics processors directly to stocking representatives, CEMs, motherboard manufacturers and add-in board manufacturers, which then sell boards with our graphics processor to leading OEMs, retail outlets and to a large number of system integrators. Although a limited number of our customers represent the majority of our revenue, their end customers include a large number of PC OEMs, including Acer, Apple, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu-Siemens, Gateway, HP, IBM, Legend Computer, Medion AG, Micron, NEC Packard Bell, Samsung, Sony and Toshiba, as well as system integrators throughout the world. 

 

As a result of our Channel strategy, our sales are focused on a limited number of customers. Sales to Microsoft accounted for 23%, sales to Edom Technology Co., Ltd. accounted for 17% and sales to Micro-Star accounted for 15% of our total revenue for fiscal 2003. Edom is an independent stocking representative and Micro-Star is a CEM, and each purchase our products and resell these products to PC OEMs and system integrators. 

 

To encourage software title developers and publishers to develop games optimized for platforms utilizing our products, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the software development community. Engineering and marketing personnel interact with and visit key software developers to promote and discuss our products, as well as to ascertain product requirements and solve technical problems. Our developer program makes products available to partners prior to volume availability to encourage the development of software titles that are optimized for our products. 

 

5 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
 

Backlog 

 

Our sales are primarily made pursuant to standard purchase orders. The quantity of products actually purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers’ requirements and in manufacturing availability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. In light of industry practice and experience, we do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is indicative of future results. 

 

Manufacturing 

 

We have a “fabless” manufacturing strategy whereby we employ world-class suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including fabrication, assembly and testing. This strategy leverages the expertise of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, in such areas as fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, reliability and testing. In addition, we are able to avoid the significant costs and risks associated with owning and operating manufacturing operations. These suppliers are also responsible for procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our products. As a result, we can focus resources on product design, additional quality assurance, marketing and customer support. 

 

Our graphics processors have been primarily fabricated by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC. However, on March 26, 2003, we announced that we have formed a multi-year strategic alliance under which IBM will manufacture our next-generation GeForce GPUs. As part of the agreement, we will gain access to IBM’s suite of foundry services and manufacturing technologies, including power-efficient copper wiring, and a roadmap that is designed to lead to 65nm (nanometer; a billionth of a meter) in the next several years, giving us valuable tools to advance our GPUs. IBM plans to begin manufacturing the next-generation GeForce graphics processor this summer at IBM’s plant in East Fishkill, New York. 

 

Our graphics processors are assembled and tested by Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor Technology, ChipPAC Incorporated and Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd. We receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform incoming quality assurance and then ship them to CEMs, stocking representatives, motherboard and add-in board manufacturer customers from our Santa Clara, California warehouse and third-party warehouses in Singapore and Hong Kong. Generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our design kit and test specifications, then ship the products to retailers, system integrators or OEMs as motherboard and add-in board solutions. Our hardware and software development teams work closely with certification agencies, Microsoft Windows Hardware Quality Labs and our OEM customers to ensure that both our boards and software drivers are certified for inclusion in the OEMs’ products. 

 

Research and Development 

 

We believe that the continued introduction of new and enhanced products designed to deliver leading 3D graphics performance and features is essential to our future success. Our research and development strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations of graphics processors using independent design teams. Our research and development efforts are performed within specialized groups consisting of software engineering, hardware engineering, very large scale integration, or VLSI, design engineering, process engineering, and architecture and algorithms. These groups act as a pipeline designed to allow the efficient simultaneous development of multiple generations of products. 

 

A critical component of our product development effort is our partnerships with leaders in the CAD industry. We have invested significant resources to develop relationships with industry leaders, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., IKOS Systems, Inc. and Synopsys, Inc., often assisting these companies in the product definition of their new products. We believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3D graphics market and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. We believe this approach assists us in meeting the new design schedules of PC manufacturers. 

 

6 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
 

We have substantially increased our engineering and technical resources and have 832 full-time employees engaged in research and development as of January 26, 2003, compared to 619 employees as of January 27, 2002. During fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, we incurred research and development expenditures of $224.9 million, $154.8 million and $86.0 million, respectively. 

 

Competition 

 

The market for 3D graphics processors for PCs is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward-forward software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, price of graphics processors and total system costs of add-in boards or motherboards. We expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than our 3D graphics processors or that may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. 

 

Our primary source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide 3D graphics solutions for the PC market. Our competitors include the following: 

 

  •   suppliers of integrated core logic chipsets that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as Intel, Silicon Integrated Systems, ATI Technologies Inc. and VIA Technologies, Inc.;  

 

  •   suppliers of graphics add-in boards that utilize their internally developed graphics chips, such as ATI Technologies Inc., Creative Technology and Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd.;  

 

  •   suppliers of mobile graphics processors that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI Technologies Inc., Trident Microsystems, Inc. and the joint venture of a division of SONICblue Incorporated (formerly S3 Incorporated) and VIA Technologies, Inc.; and  

 

  •   companies that have traditionally focused on the professional market and provide high end 3D solutions for PCs and workstations, including 3Dlabs (a Creative Technology company) and ATI Technologies Inc.  

 

If and to the extent we offer products outside of the 3D graphics processor market, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors, as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. We cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. 

 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

 

We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property. As of January 26, 2003, we owned 91 issued United States patents, 16 issued foreign patents, and have 203 United States patent applications pending and 19 foreign patent applications pending. Our issued patents have expiration dates from September 4, 2007 to October 16, 2020. As of January 26, 2003, our patents and pending patent applications related to technology used by us in connection with our products, including our graphics processors. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. In addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. We have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in our graphics processors, and expect to continue to enter into license agreements for future products. These licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or payment of other consideration. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer. 

 

7 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
 

Employees 

 

As of January 26, 2003 we had 1,513 employees, 832 of whom were engaged in research and development and 681 of whom were engaged in sales, marketing, operations and administrative positions. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we believe our relationships with our employees are good. 

 

Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data 

 

We operate in a single industry segment: the design, development and marketing of 3D graphics and media communication processors and related software for PCs, workstations and digital entertainment platforms. The information included in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements is hereby incorporated by reference. 

 

Management 

 

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and their positions as of January 26, 2003: 

 

Name

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Age

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Position

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Jen-Hsun Huang
    39
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
 
Marvin D. Burkett
    60
    Chief Financial Officer
 
Jeffrey D. Fisher
    44
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales
 
David M. Shannon
    47
    Vice President, General Counsel
 
Di Ma
    50
    Vice President, Operations
 
Daniel F. Vivoli
    42
    Vice President, Marketing
 

 

Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in April 1993 and has served as its President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since its inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions, most recently as Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible for LSI’s “system-on-a-chip” strategy. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for Advanced Micro Devices, a semiconductor company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford University. 

 

Marvin D. Burkett joined NVIDIA as Chief Financial Officer in September 2002. From February 2000 until joining NVIDIA, Mr. Burkett was a financial consultant and served as CFO of Arcot Systems, a security software company. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. Burkett was the executive vice president and CFO of Packard Bell NEC. A 34-year semiconductor veteran, Mr. Burkett also previously spent 26 years at Advanced Micro Devices, or AMD, where he held a variety of positions including CFO, senior vice president and corporate controller. Mr. Burkett holds B.S. and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Arizona. 

 

Jeffrey D. Fisher has been NVIDIA’s Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales since July 1994. He has 22 years of sales and marketing experience in the semiconductor industry. Mr. Fisher holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Purdue University and an M.B.A. degree from Santa Clara University. 

 

David M. Shannon joined NVIDIA in August 2002 as Vice President and General Counsel. From 1993 to 2002, Mr. Shannon held various counsel positions at Intel Corporation including the most recent position of Vice President and Assistant General Counsel. Mr. Shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of Gibson Dunn and Crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-tech related litigation. Mr. Shannon holds B.A. and J.D. degrees from Pepperdine University. 

 

Di Ma has been Vice President of Operations since July 2000. From 1990 to 2000 Dr. Ma was with Standard Microsystems, most recently serving as the Senior Vice President of Operations. Previously, Dr. Ma held management positions in engineering at Motorola and was an adjunct professor at State University of New York. Dr. Ma holds a B.S. in Physics from the National Taiwan University and an M.S. degree and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the State University of New York. 

 

8 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents
 

Daniel F. Vivoli has been Vice President of Marketing since December 1997. From 1988 to December 1997, Mr. Vivoli held management positions, most recently as Vice President of Product Marketing, at Silicon Graphics, Inc., a computing technology company. From 1983 to 1988, Mr. Vivoli held various marketing positions at Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr. Vivoli holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana. 

 

Available Information 

 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our Internet website, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities & Exchange Commission. 
