ITEM 1. BUSINESS 


Overview 


NVIDIA Corporation is a market leader in digital media processor technology, dedicated to creating products that enhance the interactive experience on consumer and professional computing platforms. We design, develop and market graphics processing units, or GPUs, media and communications processors, or MCPs, ultra-low power media processors, or UMPs, and related software that are integral to a wide variety of visual computing platforms, including enterprise personal computers, or PCs, consumer PCs, professional workstations, notebook PCs, personal digital assistants, cellular phones, game consoles and digital media centers. We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our mission is to be the most important visual computing company in the world. 


Original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, original design manufacturers, or ODMs, add-in-card manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies worldwide utilize NVIDIA digital media processors as a core component of their entertainment and business solutions. Our award-winning GPUs deliver superior performance and crisp visual quality for PC-based applications such as manufacturing, science, e-business, entertainment and education. Our MCPs perform highly demanding multimedia processing for broadband connectivity, communications and breakthrough audio capabilities. Our UMPs deliver a great visual experience by accelerating graphics and video applications while implementing design techniques that result in high performance and ultra-low power consumption. 


Industry Environment and Our Business 


Programmable DirectX 9 GPUs 


The combination of the programmable GPU with Microsoft Corporation’s, or Microsoft’s, DirectX 9 high-level shading language are known as DirectX 9 GPUs. The flexibility and power of DirectX 9 GPUs can enhance high-definition digital video, image processing and editing for digital photographs, as well as bring a "cinematic look" to computer graphics. Technology and market leadership in this generation of GPUs is a key element of our corporate strategy. In fiscal 2004, we offered a top-to-bottom family of DirectX 9 GPUs for desktop and notebook PCs. As consumer awareness and demand grew throughout the year, DirectX 9 GPUs gained market share. We are the segment share leader for desktop standalone DirectX 9 GPUs according to Mercury Research, reflecting the success of our strategy and the depth and strength of our GeForce FX family of programmable GPU products. 


Media Center PCs 


Media Center PCs, the latest of which are currently powered by Microsoft Windows XP Media Center Edition 2004, are complete Windows XP PCs enhanced for home entertainment. These computers represent the latest stage in the evolution of home PCs into digital media hubs that bring together entertainment choices and allow access via a remote control. Media Center PCs represent one of the most exciting growth opportunities in the PC and consumer electronics market. Driven by the proliferation of digital content, home networking, and digital displays, there is excitement around this platform, which is capable of recording, storing, sharing, and processing our growing libraries of digital content. Over a million Media Center PCs were sold during calendar 2003. The combination of our DirectX 9 GPU with high-definition digital video technology, digital media software, and our close working relationship with Microsoft helped us become the technology partner of choice for 46 of the 50 Media Center PCs that shipped worldwide during our fiscal 2004. We believe Media Center PCs have a legitimate opportunity to be the center of home entertainment in the future and represent one of the most exciting ways to participate in the digital media era. We are engaged with customers around the world in Media Center PC designs of all price points and form factors. 


  
  1   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  

 
MCPs 


NVIDIA’s nForce family of products represents our MCPs for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD,-based desktop, notebook and workstation PCs. Our nForce2 platform processor was recognized by Tom’s Hardware Guide as the "Chipset of the Year." The nForce2 propelled us to the leading position in the AMD Athlon XP microprocessor segment. In September, 2003, we announced our newest platform processor, the nForce3. The nForce3 was developed specifically for AMD’s 64-bit microprocessor architecture and is positioned for AMD’s new Athlon64 product family. In the short time NVIDIA has been in the platform processor business, we have shipped over 10 million units to date. Our strategy remains to aggressively innovate, bringing new levels of performance in system bandwidth, networking and communications, while addressing critical needs such as network security. 


UMPs 


Our successful acquisition and integration of MediaQ in August 2003 has added significant momentum to our handheld product development efforts. We are entering the era of multimedia and feature-rich handsets. Over the next several years, digital media processing technologies will play a key role for the handheld industry. With innovative technologies, such as ultra-low power digital media processors, future cell phones will be able to receive television programs, record digital video like a camcorder, enable video phone calls and be a portable game player. We see an exciting opportunity to leverage NVIDIA’s resources and expertise in digital media processing to offer products for the multimedia handset era. The handheld business is building momentum with respect to megapixel camera phones and new video telephony designs. 


Our Products 


We have three major product groups: GPUs, MCPs and UMPs. In addition, we sell a two-chip platform processor for use in Microsoft’s Xbox video game console. Our product portfolio is designed to provide advanced processing and rendering power at competitive prices and to deliver the maximum performance from industry standards such as Microsoft’s DirectX Application Programming Interface, or API, and Silicon Graphics, Inc.’s, or SGI’s, OpenGL API on Windows operating systems and Linux platforms. 


GPUs. Our GPU products support desktop PCs, notebook PCs and professional workstations. We have three major families of GPUs: GeForce, Go and Quadro. 


GeForce. The GeForce family represents our desktop GPUs and includes the GeForce FX, GeForce4 and GeForce2. Our most advanced GPU family is the GeForce FX series. Introduced in November 2002, the GeForce FX architecture is our first fully programmable cinematic GPU and is also our first to be manufactured using 0.13-micron process technology. Our GeForce FX 5950 GPU is one of the semiconductor industry’s most complex application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs. The GeForce FX 5950 GPU contains over 135 million transistors and reaches processor clock speeds up to 500 megahertz, or MHz, and memory clock speeds up to 1 gigahertz, or GHz. The GeForce FX family is designed for the enthusiast, performance and mainstream consumer segments. The GeForce2 and GeForce4 are designed to deliver a balance of performance and features for the value and low-cost PC segments. 


Go. The GeForce Go and Quadro Go families represent our notebook GPUs and include the GeForce FX Go, GeForce4 Go, GeForce2 Go, QuadroFX Go, Quadro4 Go and Quadro2 Go GPUs. These GPUs are designed to deliver desktop graphics performance and features for multiple notebook configurations from desktop replacements, performance notebooks and thin-and-lights to mobile workstations. The GeForce Go products are designed to serve the needs of both corporate and consumer users. The Quadro Go products are designed to serve the needs of workstation professionals in the area of product design and digital content creation. 


Quadro. NVIDIA’s Quadro branded products are robust, high-performance workstation solutions for the professional user that are available for the high-end, mid-range, entry-level and multi-display product lines. The NVIDIA Quadro family, which consists of the Quadro FX, Quadro4 and the Quadro NVS workstation solutions are designed to meet the needs of a number of workstation applications such as industrial product design, digital content creation, non-linear video editing, scientific and financial visualization, general purpose business and financial trading. NVIDIA Quadro products are fully certified by several software developers for all professional workstation applications, and are designed to deliver the graphics performance and precision required by professional applications. 


  
  2   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  

 
MCPs. Our MCP product family, known as nForce, supports desktop PCs, notebook PCs and professional workstations. 


nForce. The nForce family represents our MCPs for AMD-based desktop, notebook and workstation PCs and includes the nForce2 and nForce3. We define a MCP as a single-chip or chipset that can off-load system functions, such as audio processing and network communications, and perform these operations independently from the host central processing unit, or CPU. The nForce2 integrates a comprehensive set of multimedia capabilities, such as two-dimensional, or 2D, three-dimensional, or 3D, digital video disc, or DVD, high-definition television, or HDTV, Dolby Digital audio playback and fast broadband and networking communications. nForce2 is a two-chip solution, which includes either a System Platform Processor, or SPP, or an Integrated Graphics Processor, or IGP, combined with a MCP. The nForce2 family is designed to be compatible with AMD’s AthlonXP and Duron microprocessors. The nForce2 configuration is determined by the OEM or system builder. The nForce3 family is a single-chip MCP, designed to be compatible with AMD Athlon64, Athlon 64 FX and Opteron 64-bit CPUs. nForce3 products which consist of the nForce3, nForce3 Professional and nForce3 Go, are designed to complement the latest 64-bit CPUs while delivering innovative technologies for networking, storage and system performance. 


UMPs. Our UMP product family, known as GoForce, supports handheld personal digital assistants, or PDAs, and cellular phones. 


GoForce. The GoForce family represents our UMPs for a wide range of cellular and handheld devices. The GoForce 2100 is one of the first UMPs to offer hardware acceleration engines for 2D graphics to manufacturers that support liquid crystal display, or LCD, screen resolutions up to 320 x 240 pixels. The GoForce 2150 offers a host of advanced features for cellular phones and PDAs, including support for 1.3-megapixel image capture, accelerated graphics for gaming, and motion Joint Photographic Experts Group, or JPEG, capture and playback. Using dedicated hardware accelerator engines, the GoForce 2150 delivers high performance multimedia applications and drives high-resolution displays, while extending handheld battery life through a variety of unique power management techniques. 


Xbox. Our Xbox platform processor supports Microsoft’s Xbox video game system. The Xbox platform processor features dual-processing architecture, which includes NVIDIA’s GPU designed specifically for the Xbox, or XGPU, and a MCP to power the Xbox’s standout graphics, audio and networking capabilities. The XGPU is a programmable 3D processor that contains more that 60 million transistors. The amount of computing horsepower is dedicated to one goal – to create stunning, never-before-seen imagery. The MCP is based on two powerful digital signal processors with 4 billion operations per second dedicated to 3D audio and network processing. The MCP performs the processing for the broadband networking functions and high-speed peripherals. 


Our Strategy 


We design our GPUs, MCPs and UMPs to enable OEMs, original design manufacturers, or ODMs, system builders, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers to build award-winning products by delivering state-of-the-art interactive 3D graphics, audio, networking and communications capability, while maintaining affordable prices. We believe that by developing 3D graphics and media communications solutions that provide superior performance and address the key requirements of the PC and handheld segments, we will accelerate the adoption of high-definition digital media platforms and devices throughout these segments. We combine scalable architectural technology with mass market economies-of-scale to deliver a complete family of products that spans workstations to low-cost value PCs to mulitmedia-rich mobile phones. 


Our objective is to be the leading supplier of performance GPUs, MCPs and UMPs for a broad range of desktop PCs, workstations, notebooks, video game consoles, Internet appliances, handhelds and any future computing device with a display. Our current focus is on the desktop PC, workstation, notebook PC, mulitmedia-rich mobile phones and game console product lines, and we plan to expand into other product lines. Our strategy to achieve this objective includes the following key elements: 


Build Award-Winning, Architecturally-Compatible 3D Graphics, Media Communications and Ultra-Low Power Product Families for the PC, Handheld and Digital Entertainment Platforms.    Our strategy is to achieve market share leadership in these platforms by providing award-winning performance at every price point. By developing 3D graphics and media communications solutions that provide superior performance and address the key requirements of these platforms, we believe that we will accelerate the adoption of 3D graphics and rich digital media. As part of our strategy, we have closely aligned our product development with Direct3D and OpenGL, which we believe maximizes third-party software support. Direct3D and OpenGL are application programming interfaces, or APIs, that enable software developers to write their applications to a standard without specific knowledge of hardware implementations. 


  
  3   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  

 
Target Leading OEMs, ODMs and System Builders.    Our strategy is to enable our leading OEM, ODMs and major system builder customers to differentiate their products in a highly competitive marketplace by using our digital media processors. We believe that design wins with these industry leaders provide market validation of our products, increase brand awareness and enhance our ability to penetrate additional leading customer accounts. In addition, we believe that close relationships with OEMs and ODMs will allow us to better anticipate and address customer needs with future generations of our products. For example, our GPUs are currently designed into products offered by virtually every leading branded PC OEM, including Acer, Inc., or Acer, Apple Computer, Inc., or Apple, Dell Computer Corporation, or Dell, eMachines, Inc., or eMachines, Fujitsu-Siemens Computers, or Fujitsu-Siemens, Gateway, Inc., or Gateway, Hewlett Packard Company, or HP, International Business Machines, Inc., or IBM, Micron Electronics, Inc. , or Micron, NEC Corporation, or NEC, SGI, and Sony Corporation, or Sony. 


Sustain Technology and Roadmap Leadership in 3D Graphics and Video, and Media Communications and Ultra-Low Power.    We are focused on leveraging our advanced engineering capabilities to accelerate the quality and performance of 3D graphics and video, media communications and ultra-low power processing in PCs and handheld devices. A fundamental aspect of our strategy is to actively recruit the best 3D graphics and video, networking and communications engineers in the industry, and we believe that we have assembled an exceptionally experienced and talented engineering team. Our research and development strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations of GPUs, MCPs and UMPs using independent design teams. As we have in the past, we intend to leverage this strategy to achieve new levels of graphics, networking and communications features and performance and ultra-low power designs, enabling our customers to achieve award-winning performance in their products. 


Increase Market Share.    We believe that substantial market share will be important to achieving success. We intend to achieve a leading share of the market by devoting substantial resources to building award-winning families of products for a wide range of applications. 


Leverage Our Expertise in Digital Multimedia.    We believe the synergy created by the combination of 3D graphics and video and the Internet will fundamentally change the way people work, learn, communicate and play. We believe that our expertise in high-definition graphics and system architecture positions us to help drive this transformation. We are leveraging our expertise in the processing and transmission of high-bandwidth digital media to develop products designed to address the requirements of high-bandwidth concurrent multimedia. 


Sales and Marketing 


Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is a key part of our objective to become the leading supplier of performance GPUs, MCPs and UMPs for PCs and handheld devices. Our sales and marketing teams work closely with OEMs, ODMs, system integrators, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and industry trendsetters, collectively our Channel, to define product features, performance, price and timing of new products. Members of our sales team have a high level of technical expertise and product and industry knowledge to support a competitive and complex design win process. We also employ a highly skilled team of application engineers to assist the Channel in designing, testing and qualifying system designs that incorporate our products. We believe that the depth and quality of our design support are key to improving the Channel’s time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction within the Channel and fostering relationships that encourage customers to use the next generation of our products. 


In the segments we serve, the sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading OEMs and major system integrators and supporting the product design into high volume production with key ODMs, motherboard manufacturers and add-in board manufacturers. These design wins in turn influence the retail and system integrator channel that is serviced by add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. Our distribution strategy is to work with a number of leading independent contract equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, ODMs, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and stocking representatives, each of which has relationships with a broad range of major OEMs and/or strong brand name recognition in the retail channel. Currently, we sell a significant majority of our digital media processors directly to stocking representatives, CEMs, ODMs, motherboard manufacturers and add-in board manufacturers, which then sell boards and systems with our products to leading OEMs, retail outlets and to a large number of system integrators. Although a small number of our customers represent the majority of our revenue, their end customers include a large number of OEMs and system integrators throughout the world. 


  
  4   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  

 
Our GPUs are currently designed into products offered by virtually every leading branded PC OEM, including Acer, Apple, Dell, eMachines, Fujitsu-Siemens, Gateway, HP, IBM, Micron, NEC, SGI and Sony, as well as leading CEMs, including Celestica Hong Kong Ltd., Mitac International Corporation, Micro-Star International Co. Ltd., or Micro-Star, and Sanmina SCI Corporation, and leading motherboard and add-in board manufacturers, including Abit Computer Corporation, ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Canopus Corporation, Gainward Co. Ltd., Gigabyte Technology Co. Ltd., Guillemot Corporation, LeadTek Research, Inc. and PNY Technologies. 


As a result of our Channel strategy, our sales are focused on a small number of customers. Sales to Edom Technology Co., Ltd., or Edom, accounted for 21%, sales to Microsoft accounted for 15%, sales to Atlantic Semiconductor, or Atlantic, accounted for 12% and sales to Micro-Star accounted for 12% of our total revenue for fiscal 2004. Edom and Atlantic are independent stocking representatives. Micro-Star is a CEM, and each of these companies purchases our products and resells these products to OEMs and system integrators. 


To encourage software title developers and publishers to develop games optimized for platforms utilizing our products, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the software development community. Engineering and marketing personnel interact with and visit key software developers to promote and discuss our products, as well as to ascertain product requirements and solve technical problems. Our developer program makes products available to developers prior to volume availability to encourage the development of software titles that are optimized for our products. 


Backlog 


We do not believe that a backlog as of any particular date is indicative of future results. Our sales are primarily made pursuant to standard purchase orders. The quantity of products purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers’ requirements and in manufacturing availability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. In light of industry practice and experience, we believe that only a small portion of our backlog is non-cancelable and that the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant. 


Seasonality 


Our industry is largely focused on the consumer products market. Due to the seasonality in this market, we typically expect to see stronger revenue growth in the second half of the calendar year related to the back-to-school and holiday seasons. 


Manufacturing 


We do not directly manufacture semiconductor wafers used for our products. Instead we utilize what is known as a "fabless" manufacturing strategy whereby we employ world-class suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging. This strategy leverages the expertise of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, in such areas as fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, reliability and testing. In addition, this strategy allows us to avoid many of the significant costs and risks associated with owning and operating manufacturing operations. Our suppliers are also responsible for procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our products. As a result, we can focus our resources on product design, additional quality assurance, marketing and customer support. 


We utilize Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, or TSMC, IBM and United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, to produce our semiconductor wafers. We then utilize independent subcontractors to perform assembly, testing and packaging of our products. Historically, our GPUs and MCPs were primarily fabricated by TSMC. However, on March 26, 2003, we announced that we had formed a multi-year strategic alliance under which IBM will manufacture some of our GPUs. In July 2003, we began production of the GeForce FX 5700 GPU at IBM’s plant in New York. In August 2003, we completed the acquisition of MediaQ, Inc., a leading provider of graphics and multimedia technology for handheld devices. MediaQ’s products, now branded as our GoForce products, are manufactured at UMC. 


Our GPUs, MCPs and UMPs are assembled, tested and packaged by Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor Technology, ChipPAC Incorporated and Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd. We receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform incoming quality assurance and then ship them to CEMs, stocking representatives, motherboard and add-in board manufacturer customers from our Santa Clara, California warehouse and third-party warehouses in Singapore and Hong Kong. Generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our design kit and test specifications, then ship the products to retailers, system integrators or OEMs as motherboard and add-in board solutions. Our hardware and software development teams work closely with certification agencies, Microsoft Windows Hardware Quality Labs and our OEM customers to ensure that both our boards and software drivers are certified for inclusion in the OEMs’ products. 


  
  5   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  

 
Inventory and Working Capital 


      Our management focuses considerable attention on managing our inventories and other working-capital-related items. We manage inventories by communicating with our customers and then using our industry experience to forecast demand on a product-by-product basis. We then place manufacturing orders for our products that are based on this forecasted demand. The quantity of products actually purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers’ requirements and in manufacturing availability. We maintain substantial inventories of our products because t he semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. 


Research and Development 


We believe that the continued introduction of new and enhanced products designed to deliver leading 3D graphics, high definition video, audio, ultra-low power communications and networking performance and features is essential to our future success. Our research and development strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations of GPUs, MCPs and UMPs using independent design teams. Our research and development efforts are performed within specialized groups consisting of software engineering, hardware engineering, very large scale integration, or VLSI, design engineering, process engineering, architecture and algorithms. These groups act as a pipeline designed to allow the efficient simultaneous development of multiple generations of products. 


A critical component of our product development effort is our partnerships with leaders in the computer aided design, or CAD, industry. We invest significant resources in the development of relationships with industry leaders, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., IKOS Systems, Inc. and Synopsys, Inc., often assisting these companies in the product definition of their new products. We believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3D graphics market and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. We believe this approach assists us in meeting the new design schedules of PC manufacturers. 


We have substantially increased our engineering and technical resources and have 1,057 full-time employees engaged in research and development as of January 25, 2004, compared to 832 employees as of January 26, 2003. During fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, we incurred research and development expenditures of $270.0 million, $224.9 million and $154.8 million, respectively. 


Competition 


The market for GPUs, MCPs and UMPs for PCs and handhelds is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward-forward software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, price of digital media processors and total system costs of add-in boards or motherboards. We expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. 


Our primary source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide GPU, MCP and UMP solutions for the PC and handheld segments. Our competitors include the following: 


·  suppliers of MCPs that incorporate a combination of 3D graphics, networking, audio, communications and Input/Output, or I/O, functionality as part of their existing  solutions, such as ATI Technologies, Inc., or ATI, Intel Corporation, or Intel, Silicon Integrated Systems, Inc., and VIA Technologies, Inc., or VIA; 


·  suppliers of standalone desktop GPUs that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI, Creative Technology, Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd. and XGI Technology, Inc.,; 


·  suppliers of standalone notebook GPUs that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI, Silicon Motion Corporation, and the joint venture of a division of SONICblue Incorporated (formerly S3 Incorporated) and VIA; and 


·  suppliers of UMPs for handheld devices that incorporate advanced graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ATI and Seiko-Epson. 


If and to the extent we offer products outside of the personal computer, consumer electronics and handheld segments, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors, as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. We cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new segments we may enter. 


  
  6   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  

 
Patents and Proprietary Rights 


We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We have numerous patents issued and pending in the United States and in foreign countries. Our patents and pending patent applications relate to technology used by us in connection with our products, including our digital media processors. We also rely on international treaties and organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors’ operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. 


Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. In addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. We have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in our digital media processors, and expect to continue to enter into license agreements for future products. These licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or payment of other consideration. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer. 


Employees 


As of January 25, 2004 we had 1,825 employees, 1,057 of whom were engaged in research and development and 768 of whom were engaged in sales, marketing, operations and administrative positions. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we believe our relationships with our employees are good. 


Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data 


We operate in a single industry segment: the design, development and marketing of GPUs, MCPs, UMPs and related software that are integral to a wide variety of visual computing platforms including enterprise PCs, consumer PCs, professional workstations, notebook PCs, personal digital assistants, cellular phones, game consoles and digital media centers. The information included in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements is hereby incorporated by reference. 


Management 


The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and their positions as of January 25, 2004: 


Name  Age  Position  
   
Jen-Hsun Huang  40  President, Chief Executive Officer and Director  
Marvin D. Burkett  61  Chief Financial Officer  
Jeffrey D. Fisher  45  Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales  
David M. Shannon  48  Vice President, General Counsel  
Di Ma  51  Vice President, Operations  
Daniel F.Vivoli  43  Executive Vice President, Marketing  



  
  7   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  

 
Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in April 1993 and has served as its President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since its inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions, most recently as Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible for LSI’s "system-on-a-chip" strategy. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for Advanced Micro Devices, a semiconductor company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford University. 


Marvin D. Burkett joined NVIDIA as Chief Financial Officer in September 2002. From February 2000 until joining NVIDIA, Mr. Burkett was a financial consultant and served as CFO of Arcot Systems, a security software company. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. Burkett was the executive vice president and CFO of Packard Bell NEC. Mr. Burkett also previously spent 26 years at Advanced Micro Devices, or AMD, where he held a variety of positions including CFO, senior vice president and corporate controller. Mr. Burkett holds B.S. and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Arizona. 


Jeffrey D. Fisher has been NVIDIA’s Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales since July 1994. He has over 20 years of sales and marketing experience in the semiconductor industry. Mr. Fisher holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Purdue University and an M.B.A. degree from Santa Clara University. 


David M. Shannon joined NVIDIA in August 2002 as Vice President and General Counsel. From 1993 to 2002, Mr. Shannon held various counsel positions at Intel Corporation, including the most recent position of Vice President and Assistant General Counsel. Mr. Shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of Gibson Dunn and Crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology related litigation. Mr. Shannon holds B.A. and J.D. degrees from Pepperdine University. 


Di Ma has been Vice President of Operations since July 2000. From 1990 to 2000, Dr. Ma was with Standard Microsystems, most recently serving as the Senior Vice President of Operations. Previously, Dr. Ma held management positions in engineering at Motorola and was an adjunct professor at State University of New York. Dr. Ma holds a B.S. in Physics from the National Taiwan University and an M.S. degree and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the State University of New York. 


Daniel F. Vivoli has been Vice President of Marketing since December 1997. From 1988 to December 1997, Mr. Vivoli held management positions, most recently as Vice President of Product Marketing, at Silicon Graphics, Inc., a computing technology company. From 1983 to 1988, Mr. Vivoli held various marketing positions at Hewlett-Packard Company. Mr. Vivoli holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana. 


Available Information 


Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our Internet website, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 