ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

   The Company is a vertically-integrated, worldwide provider of devices,
subsystems and end-products based on optoelectronic and silicon pressure-
sensor microstructure technology. The Company designs and manufactures
optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor devices and value-added subsystems
for original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") for use in a broad range of
applications, including security, medical diagnostics, fiber optics,
telecommunications, gaming, office automation, aerospace, computer peripherals
and industrial automation. In addition, the Company utilizes its
optoelectronic technology and design capabilities to manufacture security and
inspection products that it markets worldwide to end users under the
"Rapiscan," "Secure" and "Metor" brand names. These products are used to
inspect people, baggage, cargo and other objects for weapons, explosives,
drugs and other contraband. In the medical field, the Company manufactures and
sells bone densitometers, which are used to provide bone loss measurements in
the diagnosis of osteoporosis.

   In fiscal 2000, revenues from the sale of optoelectronic and silicon
pressure-sensor devices and subsystems and medical imaging systems amounted to
$63.8 million, or approximately 57.5% of the Company's revenues, while
revenues from sales of security and inspection products amounted to $47.1
million, or approximately 42.5% of the Company's revenues. Further information
concerning market segments is available in Note 15 to the Company's financial
statements, at page F-23.

   Unless the context otherwise requires, the term the "Company" as used
herein includes OSI Systems, Inc., a California corporation, and its
subsidiaries.

Industry Overview

   The Company's optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor devices and
subsystems are designed and manufactured primarily for sale to OEMs, while the
Company's security products and medical imaging systems are sold to end-users.

   Optoelectronic and Silicon Pressure-Sensor Devices and
Subsystems. Optoelectronic devices consist of both active components, such as
silicon photodiodes that sense light of varying wavelengths and convert the
light detected into electronic signals, and passive components, such as
lenses, prisms, filters and mirrors. An optoelectronic subsystem typically
consists of one or more optoelectronic devices that are combined with other
electronic components for integration into an end-product. Optoelectronic
devices and subsystems, and medical imaging systems, are used for a wide
variety of applications ranging from simple functions, such as the detection
of paper in the print path of a laser printer, to complex monitoring,
measurement or positioning functions, such as in industrial robotics where the
subsystem is used to detect the exact position, motion or size of another
object. Because optoelectronic devices and subsystems can be used in a wide
variety of measurement, control and monitoring applications, optoelectronics
may be used in a broad array of industrial applications. Optoelectronic
devices also are key components in the telecommunications and fiber optics
market.

   The Company believes that in recent years advances in technology and
reductions in the cost of key components of optoelectronic systems, including
computer processing power and memory, have broadened the market by enabling
the use of optoelectronic devices in a greater number of applications. In
addition, the Company believes that there is a trend among OEMs to
increasingly outsource the design and manufacture of optoelectronic subsystems
to fully integrated, independent manufacturers who may have greater
specialization, broader expertise, and the ability and flexibility to respond
in shorter time periods than the OEM could accomplish in-house. The Company
believes that its high level of vertical integration, substantial engineering
resources, expertise in the use and application of optoelectronic technology,
and low-cost international manufacturing operations enable it to compete in
the market for optoelectronic devices and subsystems.

                                       1
<PAGE>

   Silicon pressure-sensors and microstructures are based upon the same
process technologies as the optoelectronic components and are also used as
components in a variety of applications primarily in the automotive, medical,
and industrial markets. Typical applications include pressure sensing in fuel
vapor systems, engine controls, respiration and anaesthesia machines, and
industrial pressure transducers, and heating, venting and air-conditioning
markets. The Company sells its products in die form to other sensor companies
as well as packaged parts. A primary focus of the Company's pressure products
has been in the precision low-pressure segment of the silicon sensor market,
where the performance of its parts allow replacement of non-silicon sensors
with lower cost silicon components.

   The Company formed RapiTec, Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary, in fiscal
2000 which has enabled the Company to further penetrate the worldwide weapons
simulation market through system engineering, product development, rapid
prototyping, and volume manufacturing for state-of-the-art, laser-based
training systems for the defense industry.

   The Company recently has developed high-speed silicon photodiodes for use
in fiber optic systems such as Gigabit Ethernet and Fiber Channel systems.
These products can replace Gallium Arsenide products at about half the cost. A
recent product developed by the Company is a silicon-based fiber optic
detector which can achieve a 2.5 Gigabit/second data rate using 3.3 volts bias
voltage. In order to further develop and market fiber optic products, the
Company has recently formed a new subsidiary, OSI Fibercomm, Inc., which has
launched a new family of Indium Gallium Arsenide photodetectors for use in a
variety of network applications and long-haul communications applications,
together with light speed silicon-based detectors combined with transimpedence
amplifiers ("TIA").

   Medical Diagnostic and Imaging Systems. The Company has expanded into
medical diagnostic and imaging systems. The Company manufactures and
distributes the DTX 200 (DEXACARE) and U.S. Food & Drug Administration
("FDA")-approved forearm DEXA (Dual Energy X-Ray) densitometer, which is used
to diagnose osteoporosis as well as to provide follow-up bone density
measurements. The Company also produces the ultrasound DTU-One, the first
commercially available ultrasound scanner using imaging capability for the
diagnosis of osteoporosis. The DTU-One has not previously been available for
sale in the United States, but in September, 2000, the Company received pre-
market approval ("PMA") from the FDA, and is now authorized to sell the DTU-
One in the United States.

   The Company has also acquired majority ownership of TFT Medical, Inc.,
which has been renamed "OSI Medical, Inc." ("OSI Medical"), which is currently
developing new-generation pulse oximeter instruments and probes for use in the
medical field. The Company also has five-year warrants (subject to earlier
termination upon the occurrence of certain events) to acquire up to 1,110,000
additional OSI Medical shares at a purchase price of $1.35 per share. The
warrants are first exercisable commencing on April 12, 2001. In August 1998,
the Company acquired a 16% interest in Square One Inc., which develops and
manufactures infrared-based patient monitoring medical subsystems, and in
August 2000, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Square
One.

   Security and Inspection Products. A variety of products are currently used
worldwide in security and inspection applications. These products include
single energy x-ray equipment, dual energy x-ray equipment, metal detectors,
trace detection systems that detect particulate and chemical traces of
explosive materials, computer tomography ("CT"), scanners and x-ray machines
employing backscatter detection technology. To date, most of these products
have been deployed primarily at commercial airports worldwide. The Company
believes that the growth in the market for security and inspection products
will continue to be driven by the increased perception of threat fueled by
recent terrorist incidents, increased government mandates and appropriations,
and the emergence of a growing market for the non-security applications of its
products.

   In the 1970s, principally in response to civilian airline highjackings, the
U.S. Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") established security standards by
setting guidelines for the screening of carry-on baggage for weapons such as
guns and knives. These standards were later mandated by the United Nations for
adoption by all of its member states. The Company believes that to date the
imposition of these standards has resulted in the installation of over 10,000
x-ray inspection systems installed in airports worldwide. Additionally,

                                       2
<PAGE>

the United Kingdom Department of Transport has required the United Kingdom's
commercial airports to deploy systems for 100% screening of international
checked baggage since the end of 1998, and the European Civil Aviation
Conference, an organization of 33 member states, has agreed to implement 100%
screening of international checked baggage in the future. In the United
States, largely in response to the explosion of Pan Am Flight 103 in December
1988, Congress enacted the Aviation Security Improvement Act of 1990 which,
among other initiatives, directed the FAA to establish and implement strict
security measures and to deploy advanced technology for the detection of
explosives. In July 1996, President Clinton formed the White House Commission
on Aviation Safety and Security (the "Gore Commission"), to review airline and
airport security and to oversee aviation safety. In response to the initial
report released by the Gore Commission, the United States enacted legislation
that includes $144 million in appropriations for the initial deployment of
advanced security and inspection technology at major U.S. airports. The
Clinton Administration is continuing to fund procurements of $100 million
annually for state-of-the-art detection equipment at major U.S. airports. A
portion of this funding is allocated for TIP Ready X-ray (TRX) systems at
security checkpoints throughout the nation.

   In April 2000, the Company was awarded a contract by the Federal Aviation
Administration ("FAA") to provide x-ray screening systems at selected airports
throughout the United States. The initial purchase under the contract is for
approximately 100 carry-on baggage x-ray screening systems. Under the
contract, the FAA has the right to purchase up to 800 systems, for which the
purchase price would be approximately $40 million.

   X-ray inspection equipment, such as that sold by the Company, is also
increasingly being used for a number of purposes not related to security.
Newer versions of x-ray inspection equipment combine x-ray inspection with
computer image enhancement capabilities and can be applied to various non-
security purposes such as the detection of narcotics, gold and currency, the
inspection of agricultural products, and the inspection of cargo by customs
officers and international shippers.

Growth Strategy

   The Company's objectives are to be a leading provider of specialized
optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor products, to enhance its position
in the international inspection and detection marketplace and to leverage its
expertise in the optoelectronic technology industry by entering into new end-
product markets on a selective basis. Key elements of this strategy include:

   Leverage its Optoelectronic Design and Manufacturing Expertise to Address
New Applications. The Company believes that one of its primary competitive
strengths is its expertise in designing and manufacturing specialized
optoelectronic subsystems for its OEM customers in a cost-effective manner.
The Company currently designs and manufactures devices and subsystems for over
200 customers serving over 100 applications. The Company has developed this
expertise in the past through internal research and development efforts and
through selective acquisitions. In 1990, the Company acquired UDT Sensors,
Inc. ("UDT Sensors") to broaden its expertise and capabilities in developing
and manufacturing optoelectronic devices and subsystems. In 1993, the Company
acquired Rapiscan Security Products Limited ("Rapiscan U.K.") and, through
Rapiscan Security Products (U.S.A.), Inc. ("Rapiscan U.S.A.") (Rapiscan U.S.A.
and Rapiscan U.K. are sometimes collectively referred to as "Rapiscan"),
commenced its operations as a provider of security and inspection products in
the United States. Thereafter, in 1993, the Company acquired Ferson Optics,
Inc. ("Ferson Optics") for its passive optic technologies. In 1994, the
Company commenced operations of Opto Sensors (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ("OSI
Malaysia") to take advantage of low cost manufacturing. In 1997, the Company
acquired Advanced Micro Electronics AS ("AME") for AME's hybrid optoelectronic
capabilities.

   In September 1998, the Company acquired Osteometer, a Danish manufacturer
of diagnostic scanners used to detect osteoporosis. Osteometer concentrates on
the development of small, cost-optimized scanners making it possible for small
clinics to offer their patients a cost effective diagnosis of osteoporosis and
is committed to the development of scientifically and clinically validated
devices that result in accurate, precise, reliable and cost effective
diagnosis. Due to the global decline in the bone densitometer market, in
August 1999 the Company decided to close the operations of Osteometer in
Denmark, and relocate certain of these operations to the

                                       3
<PAGE>

Company's U.S. facilities. In the quarter ended September 30, 1999, the
Company recorded estimated restructuring costs of $1.9 million related to the
closure of the Osteometer facility in Denmark. These costs were associated
primarily with the termination of certain employees, commitments and other
facility closure costs. During the quarter ended March 31, 2000, the Company
completed the closure of the Osteometer facility in Denmark and the relocation
of the operations to the United States. The market for osteoporosis diagnostic
equipment is currently weak and is expected to remain so for at least the
near-term.

   In November 1998, the Company purchased the security products business of
Metorex International Oy ("Metorex Security") of Espoo, Finland. The Company
paid $4.7 million in cash, including professional fees associated with the
acquisition. In July 1999, the Company paid 4.4 million Finnish markka
(approximately $739,000), in lieu of contingent payments of up to $1.5
million, based on future sales. The acquisition of Metorex Security brought a
complete security metal detection product line to the Company. Metor brand
security archway metal detectors are among the most widely recognized such
products in the world. These metal detectors complement the x-ray screening
systems supplied by Rapiscan. Metorex Security continues to supply a large
number of systems to the U.S. Government, as well as to customers around the
world. The products include Metor 100 series archways, as well as Metor 200
series zonal archways. The Company's MetorNet(TM) product allows monitoring
and control of multisystem installations.

   In November 1998, the Company acquired all the outstanding stock of Silicon
Microstructures, Inc. ("SMI"), a silicon pressure-sensor manufacturer, from
Exar Corporation of Fremont, California. The Company paid $2.7 million in
cash, including professional fees associated with the acquisition. As of June
30, 2000, per the purchase agreement, the Company may be required to pay up to
an additional $2.4 million in cash, at a later date, based on sales made
subsequent to the purchase. To date, the Company has not been required to make
any such payments, and it does not anticipate that the circumstances will
require it to do so in the future. The designs and processes of SMI allow
leveraging of the Company's silicon wafer fabrication technologies to
initially serve pressure sensor markets and extend into the future to a
variety of products based on mechanical structures in silicon.

   In December 1998, the Company acquired most of the assets and assumed
certain liabilities of Corrigan Canada Ltd. ("Corrigan"), a Canadian security
products manufacturer, for approximately $476,000 in cash, including
professional fees associated with the acquisition.

   In January 1999, the Company acquired Aristo Medical Products, Inc.
("Aristo") for approximately $277,000 in cash, including professional fees
associated with the acquisition. Aristo develops and manufactures new
generation pulse oximeter probes used in the medical field.

   In August 1998, the Company invested $315,000, including professional fees
associated with the acquisition, in Square One Inc. ("Square One") for an
equity share of approximately 16%, and in August 2000, the Company acquired
substantially all of its assets for consideration of $228,000 in cash, future
royalties, and return of the Square One stock held by the Company. The
acquired business is the development and manufacturing of infrared-based
patient monitoring medical subsystems.

   During fiscal 1999, the Company invested $1.0 million, including
professional fees associated with the acquisition, in OSI Medical for an
equity share of approximately 40%. OSI Medical develops new generation pulse
oximeter instruments and probes for use in the medical field. Pursuant to an
agreement entered into as of October 4, 1999 (the "OSI Medical Agreement") the
Company acquired an additional equity interest, representing approximately 16%
of the stock ownership of OSI Medical for $1.2 million, including professional
fees associated with the acquisition. With this additional equity investment,
the Company increased its equity share in OSI Medical to approximately 56%. On
April 12, 2000, also pursuant to the OSI Medical Agreement and in connection
with certain amounts loaned or to be loaned by the Company to OSI Medical
thereunder, the Company also acquired five-year warrants (subject to earlier
termination upon the occurrence of certain events) to acquire up to 1,110,000
additional OSI Medical shares at a purchase price of $1.35 per share. The
warrants are first exercisable commencing on April 12, 2001, and, if fully
exercised, would result in the Company's share

                                       4
<PAGE>

in OSI Medical being increased to over 60%, based upon the number of shares
presently outstanding. Also, pursuant to the OSI Medical Agreement, under
certain circumstances the Company has an option, which expires in December 31,
2002, to acquire all of OSI Medical.

   The Company intends to continue to build its expertise in order to address
a greater number of applications. By expanding the number of potential
applications its products may serve, the Company intends to increase its
business with existing customers and by attracting new customers.

   Further Penetrate Existing Security and Inspection Markets and Expand into
Other Markets. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, the Company
continued to expand sales of its security and inspection products beyond the
traditional focus on airports and airlines to include government buildings,
customs facilities, courthouses, school districts, departments of corrections
and businesses for their respective security and inspection needs. The Company
intends to continue to expand its sales and marketing efforts both
domestically and internationally to capitalize on opportunities in its
existing markets for new installations as well as opportunities to replace,
service and upgrade existing security installations. In addition, through
research and development and selective acquisitions, the Company intends to
enhance and expand its current product offering to better address new
applications including automatic bomb detection and cargo scanning.

   The Company believes that its strategy will enable it to take advantage of
the growth its existing markets are experiencing and to benefit from
additional growth that these new and enhanced products will provide.

   Capitalize on Vertical Integration. The Company believes that it offers
significant added value to its OEM customers by providing a full range of
vertically-integrated services including component design and customization,
subsystem concept design and application engineering, product prototyping and
development, and efficient pre-production, short-run and high volume
manufacturing. The Company believes that its vertical integration
differentiates it from many of its competitors and provides value to its OEM
customers, who can rely on the Company to be an integrated supplier of an
optoelectronic subsystem. In addition, the Company's vertical integration
provides several other advantages in both its optoelectronic devices and
subsystems and security and detection product lines. These advantages include
reduced manufacturing and delivery times, lower costs due to its access to
competitive international labor markets and direct sourcing of raw materials,
and quality control. Further leverage is obtained by extending the silicon
wafer fabrication processes to manufacture the pressure sensors and
microstructure processes of SMI. The Company intends to continue to leverage
its vertically integrated services to create greater value for its customers
in the design and manufacture of its products. The Company believes that this
strategy better positions the Company for penetration into other end markets.

   Capitalize on Global Presence. The Company operates from locations in the
United States, Europe, Asia and Canada. The Company views its international
operations as providing an important strategic advantage over competitors in
both the optoelectronic device and subsystem market and the security and
inspection market for three primary reasons. First, international
manufacturing facilities allow the Company to take advantage of competitive
labor rates in order to be a low cost producer. Second, its international
offices strengthen its sales and marketing efforts and its ability to service
and repair its systems by providing direct access to growing foreign markets
and to its existing international customer base. Third, multiple manufacturing
locations allow the Company to reduce delivery times to its global customer
base. In the future, the Company intends to develop new sources of
manufacturing and sales capabilities to maintain and enhance the benefits of
its international presence.

   Selectively Enter New End Markets. Similar to the Company's expansion
during fiscal 1998 into optoelectronic products for medical diagnostic
applications, the Company intends to selectively enter new end markets that
complement its existing capabilities in designing, developing and
manufacturing optoelectronic devices and subsystems. The Company believes that
by manufacturing other end products which rely on the technological
capabilities of the Company, it can leverage its existing integrated design
and manufacturing infrastructure to capture greater margins and build a
significant presence in new end markets which present attractive competitive
market dynamics. The Company intends to achieve this strategy through internal
growth and through selective acquisitions of end-product manufacturers.

                                       5
<PAGE>

Products and Technology

   The Company designs, develops, manufactures and sells products based on its
core optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor technology. These products
range from discrete devices to value-added subsystems to complete x-ray
security and inspection products, and medical imaging systems.

   Discrete Devices and Subsystems, and Medical Imaging
Systems. Optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor devices generally consist
of both active and passive components. Active components sense light of
varying wavelengths and convert the light detected into electronic signals,
whereas passive components amplify, separate or reflect light. Active
components manufactured by the Company consist of silicon photodiodes and
hybrid photodetectors. Passive components include lenses, prisms, filters,
mirrors and other precision optical products that are used by the Company in
the manufacture of its optoelectronic products or are sold to others for use
in telescopes, laser printers, copiers, microscopes and other detection and
vision equipment. A second group of discrete devices are the pressure sensors
and microstructures of SMI. These are primarily manufactured in the same wafer
fabrication facility as the optoelectronic components, thereby achieving
greater utilization and economy of scale in this specialized facility. The
same lithographic, furnace and metal processes are combined with silicon
etching to form precise miniature electromechanical structures in silicon. SMI
has developed specific structural designs that concentrate stresses and
provide higher signals and improved performance over conventional silicon
pressure sensors. The devices manufactured by the Company are both standard
products and products customized for specific applications. Most of the
devices manufactured by the Company are incorporated into the subsystems
manufactured by the Company. The Company does, however, also sell its discrete
devices separately to OEMs. Direct sales of devices to third parties
constituted less than 10% of the Company's revenues in each of fiscal 1998,
1999 and 2000.

   In addition to the manufacture of discrete devices, the Company also
specializes in designing and manufacturing customized optoelectronic
subsystems for use in a wide range of products and equipment. An
optoelectronic subsystem typically consists of one or more optoelectronic
devices that are combined with other electronic components and packaging for
use in an end-product. The composition of a subsystem can range from a simple
assembly of various optoelectronic devices that are incorporated into other
subsystems (for example, a printed circuit board containing the Company's
optoelectronic devices), to complete end-products (for example, medical pulse
oximeter probes that are manufactured and packaged by the Company on behalf of
the OEM customer and then shipped directly to the customer or the customer's
distributors). Since the end of fiscal 1996, the Company has manufactured
subsystems for a variety of applications, including the following: fiber
optics, imaging electronics for medical CT scanners, disposable and reusable
medical probes for use with medical pulse oximetry equipment, components and
subsystems for laser gyroscopes used in military and commercial aviation,
optoelectronic subsystems for slot machines, laser subsystems in military
helicopter gun sighting equipment, positioning subassemblies for computer
peripheral equipment, alignment subsystems for laser heads in optical disc
players, and ultra-violet fire detection subsystems for submarines and surface
ships.

   The Company has also started manufacturing and shipping high-speed silicon
based photodetectors and detector-amplifier hybrids serving the fiber-optics
and telecommunications market in SAN, LAN, 1.25 Gbps and 2.5 Gbps
applications. In addition to Silicon , the company has started shipping Indium
Gallium Arsenide photodetectors serving a wide variety of storage, local,
metropolitan and wide area networks (SAN, LAN, MAN, WAN) and other long haul
telecommunications marketplace.

   The Company has also moved into the field of manufacturing and selling the
DTX 200 (DEXACARE) and U.S. Food & Drug Administration ("FDA")-approved
forearm DEXA (Dual Energy X-Ray) densitometer, which is used to diagnose
osteoporosis as well as to provide follow-up bone density measurements. The
Company also produces the ultrasound DTU-One, the first commercially available
scanner using imaging capability for the diagnosis of osteoporosis. The DTU-
One has not previously been available for sale in the United States, but in
September, 2000, the Company received pre-market approval ("PMA") from the
FDA, and is now authorized to sell the DTU-One in the United States.

                                       6
<PAGE>

   Security and Inspection Equipment. The Company manufactures and sells a
range of security and inspection equipment that it markets under the
"Rapiscan," "Secure" and "Metor" brand names. To date, the security and
inspection equipment has principally been used at airports to inspect carry-on
and checked baggage for guns and knives. However, inspection products are
increasingly being used for both security purposes at a wide range of
facilities other than airports and for other non-security purposes. For fiscal
years 1998, 1999 and 2000, approximately 22.0%, 20.5% and 26.1%, respectively,
of the Company's security and inspection revenues were derived from the sale
of inspection products to airlines and airports, and the balance of such
revenues were derived from all other sales.

   The Company's inspection and detection products combine the use of x-ray
technology with the Company's core optoelectronic capabilities. The Company's
products combine dual- or multi-energy x-ray technology with computer enhanced
imaging technology to facilitate the detection of materials such as
explosives, narcotics, currency or other contraband. While all x-ray systems
produce a two-dimensional image of the contents of the inspected material, the
dual-energy x-ray systems also measure the x-ray absorption of the inspected
materials' contents at two x-ray energies to determine the atomic number, mass
and other characteristics of the object's contents. The different organic and
non-organic substances in the inspected material are displayed in various
colors. This information is then displayed to an operator of the inspection
equipment who can identify and differentiate the objects in the inspected
materials. These systems range in size from compact tabletop systems to large
cargo pallet inspection systems weighing over 100,000 lbs.

   Currently, all of the Company's inspection products require an operator to
monitor the images produced by the inspection equipment. Depending on the
model, the Company's products permit the operator to inspect the contents of
packages at varying image modes and magnifications. The images range from the
monochrome and pseudo-color images produced by single x-ray imaging systems,
to high resolution, multi-color images in the Company's computer enhanced
dual-energy models. The Company believes that its Rapiscan 500 Series provides
one of the highest quality images currently available in the x-ray security
and inspection industry.

   With the acquisition of Metorex Security, the Company acquired walk-through
metal detection systems which utilize pulse induced magnetic fields combined
with microprocessor based electronics, which provide uniform detection of
ferrous and non-ferrous metallic objects. The technologies range from dual
channel crossed magnetic fields to multi-zone coil configuration.

   In the field of inspection of people, the Company's "Secure" brand product
line uses x-ray systems employing backscatter detection technology. Secure
1000 is an electronic screening system for hands-off personal scanning. The
system is based on an extremely low dose of backscatter x-ray imaging to
detect contraband and weapons concealed underneath clothing and hair. The
system provides better screening than metal detectors as it detects very small
amounts of metal as well as non-metallic contraband.

   In order to monitor the performance of operators of the x-ray baggage
screening systems that are used in the United States airports, the FAA has
implemented a computer-based training and evaluation program known as the
Screener Proficiency Evaluation And Reporting System ("SPEARS"). To
continuously monitor the effectiveness of the screening system and its
operator, test threat images, such as weapons, are projected into the images
of actual parcels being inspected. The results of these tests are available to
government agencies. In April 2000, the Company was awarded a contract by the
Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") to provide x-ray screening systems at
selected airports throughout the United States. The initial purchase under the
contract is for 100 carry-on baggage x-ray screening systems. Under the
contract, the FAA has the right to purchase up to 800 systems, for which the
purchase price would be approximately $40 million.


                                       7
<PAGE>

   The following table sets forth certain information related to the standard
security and inspection products currently offered by the Company. The Company
does, however, also customize its standard products to suit specific
applications and customer requirements:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    SELECTED
      MODEL (Technology)             APPLICATIONS                 INSTALLATIONS
 ----------------------------  ------------------------   ----------------------------
 <C>                           <S>                        <C>
 Rapiscan 519                  Inspection of incoming     Embassies
                                package                   Post offices
                                                          Courthouses
                                                          High risk office buildings
                                                          Manufacturing companies

 Rapiscan 500 Series           Airport hand carried and   Airports
  -Standard Tunnel (single     checked  baggage           Prisons
  view and dual view 160 kV    Pallet inspection          Government buildings
  x-ray source, single energy  Customs inspections        Nuclear facilities
  and dual energy)             Agriculture inspection     Cruise ships
                                                          Freight shippers
                                                          Border crossings

 Rapiscan 500 Series           Large pallet inspection    Airports
  -Large Tunnel (single view   Customs inspections        Freight shippers
  and dual view 320-450 kV                                Border crossings
  x-ray source)                                           High risk seaport locations

 Rapiscan 500 Series           Mobile x-ray inspection    Conventions and special
  -Mobile Systems (x-ray van                              events
  or trailer)                                             Airports
                                                          Customs inspections
                                                          Border crossings

 Rapiscan Series 2000 Cargo    Fixed Site Cargo           Airports
  Inspection Systems            Inspection Systems        Freight Shippers
                                                          Border Crossings

 Metor 100 Series              Walk-through metal         Airports
                                detection                 Courthouses
                                                          Government buildings
                                                          Conventions and special
                                                          events

 Metor 200 Series              Multi-zone walk-through    Airports
                                metal detection           Prisons
                                                          Nuclear facilities
                                                          Government buildings
                                                          Courthouses

 SECURE 1000 (non-intrusive    High Security Personnel    Prisons
  personal screening system)    Inspection                Military Facilities
                                                          Border crossings
                                                          Customs

 Threat Image Projection       Performance Monitoring     Majority of Rapiscan
  ("TIP")                                                 500 Series Systems
</TABLE>

Markets, Customers and Applications

   Optoelectronic and Silicon Pressure-Sensor Devices and Subsystems. The
Company's optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor devices and subsystems
are used in a broad range of products by a variety of customers. The following
table illustrates, for the year ended June 30, 2000: (i) the major product
categories for which the

                                       8
<PAGE>

Company provided optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor products; and (ii)
certain representative customers in each such category. The Company expects
that the list of product categories, the amount of business derived from each
such product category, and the composition of its major customers will vary
from period to period.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            Representative Major
                    Product Category                              Customers
 ------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
 <C>                                                    <S>
 Computed Tomography and X-Ray Imaging                  Picker International
                                                        InVision Technologies

 Aerospace and Avionics                                 Cubic Defense Systems
                                                        Allied Signal
                                                        Honeywell Avionics
                                                        Litton Systems

 Medical Monitoring                                     Datascope
                                                        BCI

 Analytical, Medical Diagnostics and Particle Analyzers Abaxis
                                                        Coulter Corporation

 Office Automation and Computer Peripherals             Xerox
                                                        Eastman Kodak
                                                        Dr. Johannes Heidenhain

 Construction, Industrial Automation and Exploration    Spectra Physics
                                                        Baumer Electric

 Military/Defense and Weapons Simulations               Lockheed Martin (Loral)
                                                        Raytheon
                                                        Norsk Forsvarstekmol

 Bar Code Scanners                                      Symbol Technologies

 Gaming Industry                                        Bally Gaming

 Automotive                                             Motorola
                                                        Analog Microelectronics GMBH

 Medical                                                Siemens Elcma
                                                        Resmed Corp.
                                                        Endosonics Corp.

 Industrial                                             Honeywell Corp.
                                                        OJ Electronics

 Fiber Optics/Telecommunications                        JDS Uniphase
                                                        SDL
</TABLE>

   In August 2000, the Company formed OSI Fibercomm, Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary, to advance the Company's fiber optic business. Fibercomm will
undertake the sales and marketing of the Company's Indium Gallium Arsenide and
silicon photodetectors and other fiber optic products developed by the
Company's subsidiary UDT Sensors, Inc.

                                       9
<PAGE>

   Security and Inspection Products. Since entering the security and
inspection products market in 1993, the Company has shipped approximately
4,500 units to approximately 50 countries. The following is a list of certain
customers and/or installations that have purchased the Company's security and
inspection products since January 1993:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                  Overseas                               Domestic
   --------------------------------------  ------------------------------------
   <S>                                     <C>
   Prague Airport, Czech Republic          Major U.S. Airlines
   Gatwick Airport, England                Bush Intercontinental Airport
   Heathrow Airport, England               Federal Courthouses
   TNT Freight, England                    Federal Reserve Bank
   Japanese Embassies, worldwide           JFK International Airport
   Malaysian Airport Board, Malaysia       Los Angeles County Courthouse
   HAJ Terminal, Saudi Arabia              Los Angeles International Airport
   Dubai Airport, U.A.E.                   Miami Airport
   United Kingdom Prison System, United    Orlando Airport
    Kingdom                                Ronald Reagan National Airport
   INFRAERO, airports, Brazil              U.S. Government
   Chek Lap Kok International Airport,     California Department of Corrections
    Hong Kong                              U.S. Department of Corrections
   Pudong Shanghai International Airport,  Empire State Building
    P.R. China                             World Trade Center
   Kremlin, Russia
   New Zealand Customs, New Zealand
   Vatican
   2000 Summer Olympics, Sydney,
    Australia
   Narita Airport, Tokyo
</TABLE>

   The market for most security and inspection products developed in response
to civilian airline highjackings. Consequently, a large portion of the
Company's security and inspection products were sold and continue to be sold
for use at airports. Recently, however, the Company's security and inspection
products have been used for security purposes at locations in addition to
airports, such as courthouses, government buildings, mail rooms, schools,
prisons and at unique locations such as Buckingham Palace in London, England.
In addition, the Company's security and inspection products are increasingly
being used for non-security purposes, such as for cargo inspection to detect
narcotics and contraband, prevention of pilferage at semiconductor
manufacturing facilities, quality assurance for agricultural products, and the
detection of gold and currency.

   In September 1998, the Company entered into an agreement with the Federal
Aviation Administration for advanced contraband detection systems with TIP
features. The systems began to be shipped to Category X airports (designated
due to their high security priority) in the United States during fiscal 1999.
Systems were shipped during fiscal 2000 and continue to be shipped during
fiscal 2001. In addition, the FAA ordered Rapiscan training computers to
assist in the instruction of advanced detection technologies to security
personnel.

   In January 1999, the Company entered into an agreement with the People's
Republic of China to upgrade and provide technical support for the Vehicle
Cargo X-ray System ("VCXS") operated by the Chinese customs authority at
Shenzhen, near Hong Kong. The VCXS system allows a fast, detailed inspection
of fully loaded trucks, and 20-foot and 40-foot containers in lieu of a full
manual search.

   In March 1999, the Company was awarded a contract by BAA plc, the operator
of 11 airports around the world, including London's Heathrow Airport, the
busiest international airport in the world. Rapiscan U.K. has supplied,
installed and will continue to maintain approximately 150 x-ray systems used
in screening cabin baggage for explosives, weapons and other contraband. These
systems feature advanced detection software, including TIP. The agreement also
provides for Rapiscan U.K. to provide maintenance and support services on the
installed systems for five years.

                                      10
<PAGE>

   During fiscal 2000, the Company entered into a number of significant
agreements for the development and sale of the Company's security and
inspection products. Some of the principal agreements are the following.

   During the second quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company received and
completed a security system order in excess of $1.5 million from the Vatican.

   In the second quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company entered into a contract
with a branch of the Mexican government for approximately $2.2 million for
multiple Secure 2000 body scanners.

   In April 2000, the Company was awarded a contract by the Federal Aviation
Administration ("FAA") to provide x-ray screening systems at selected airports
throughout the United States. The initial purchase under the contract is for
100 carry-on baggage x-ray screening systems. Under the contract, the FAA has
the right to purchase up to 800 systems, for which the total contract might be
as high as approximately $40 million.

   In June 2000, the Company was awarded a contract to supply two Rapiscan
2000 Series Large Vehicle Cargo X-ray Systems to the government of Hong Kong.
The price of these units is approximately $9 million.

Marketing, Sales and Service

   The Company markets and sells its optoelectronic and silicon pressure-
sensor devices and subsystems, and medical imaging systems, worldwide through
both a direct sales and marketing staff of 30 employees and indirectly through
a network of approximately 45 independent sales representatives and
distributors. Most of the in-house sales staff is based in the United States
while most of the independent sales representatives and distributors are
located abroad. Since the acquisition of AME in March 1997, the Company's
marketing efforts in Europe have been conducted through AME's sales and
marketing staff and through a network of approximately eight independent sales
representatives. The Company markets and sells its security and inspection
products worldwide through a direct sales and marketing staff of approximately
35 employees located in the United States, Finland, Canada, the United
Kingdom, Dubai, and Malaysia and through a network of approximately 135
independent sales representatives.

   The Company's optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor products and
medical imaging systems sales staff, located in the United States and Norway,
is supported by an applications engineering group whose members are available
to provide technical support. This support includes designing applications,
providing custom tooling and process integration, defining solutions for
customers and developing products that meet customer defined specifications.
The security and inspection and medical imaging products sales staff is
supported by a service organization of approximately 35 persons located
primarily in the United States, the United Kingdom, Finland and Malaysia. The
Company also supports these sales and customer relations efforts by providing
operator training, computerized training and testing equipment, in-country
service, software upgrades, service training for customer technicians and a
newsletter on security issues.

   The Company considers its maintenance service operations to be an important
element of its business. After the expiration of the standard product warranty
period, the Company is often engaged by its customers to provide maintenance
services for its security and inspection products through annual maintenance
contracts. The Company believes that its international maintenance service
capabilities allow it to be competitive in selling its security and inspection
products. Furthermore, the Company believes that as its installed base of
security and inspection products increases, revenues generated from such
annual maintenance service contracts and from the sale of replacement parts
will increase. In fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000, maintenance service revenues and
replacement part sales collectively represented 3.5%, 3.6% and 3.6%
respectively, of the Company's revenues.

Research and Development

   The Company's components and optoelectronic subsystems are designed and
engineered at the Company's facilities in either Hawthorne and Fremont,
California, or Horten, Norway. The subsystems that the Company

                                      11
<PAGE>

manufactures are engineered by the Company to solve specific application needs
of its OEM customers. The Company's customers typically request that the
Company design custom optoelectronic solutions for their specific needs when
standard components or subsystems are not available from other manufacturers
of optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor devices. After an end-product
has been conceptualized by the OEM, the Company normally will involve its
engineers to design the application, establish the mechanical specifications
for the application, create the appropriate subsystem architecture for the
application, and design the development, production and assembly process for
the manufacture of the ultimate subsystem. However, because the Company has
the engineering, tooling and manufacturing capabilities to design and
manufacture entire subsystems, and not just a specific component, the Company
typically also designs, manufactures and assembles the entire subsystem for
the customer. Because the Company's engineers are able to provide additional
value and services to its customers through the entire production process from
concept to completion, the Company considers its engineering personnel to be
an important extension of its core sales and marketing effort.

   In addition to close collaboration with the Company's customers in the
design and development of optoelectronics-based products, the Company
maintains an active program for the development and introduction of new
products and enhancements and improvements to its existing products, including
the implementation of new applications of its technology. The Company seeks to
further develop its research and development program and considers such a
program to be an important element of its business and operations. As of June
30, 2000, in addition to the engineers that the Company employed in
manufacturing, process design and applications development, the Company
engaged approximately 70 full-time engineers and technicians in research and
development. During fiscal 2000 and 1999, the Company's research and
development expenses were approximately $7.7 million and $5.7 million,
respectively. A significant portion of the increase in research and
development in fiscal 2000 is the result of acquisitions during fiscal 1999
and 2000. In order to fulfill its strategy of increasing its security and
inspection product lines and of enhancing the capabilities of its existing
products, the Company intends to continue to increase its research and
development efforts in the future.

   The Company's security screening products are designed at Rapiscan U.S.A.'s
facilities in Hawthorne, California and Rapiscan U.K.'s facilities in Crawley,
England and Espoo, Finland. These products include mechanical, electrical,
electronic, digital electronic and software subsystems, which are all designed
by the Company. In addition to product design, the Company provides system
integration services to integrate its products into turnkey systems at the
customer site. The Company supports cooperative research projects with
government agencies and, on occasion, provides contract research for its
customers and government agencies.

Manufacturing and Materials Management

   The Company currently has manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom,
Malaysia, Finland, Canada and Norway, in addition to its manufacturing
facilities in Hawthorne and Fremont, California and Ocean Springs,
Mississippi. The Company's principal manufacturing facility is in Hawthorne,
California. However, most of the Company's high volume, labor intensive
manufacturing and assembly is generally performed at its facilities in
Malaysia. Since most of the Company's customers currently are located in
Europe and the United States, the Company's ability to assemble its products
in these markets and provide follow-on service from offices located in these
regions is an important component of the Company's global strategy.

   The Company seeks to focus its subsystem manufacturing resources on its
core competencies that enable it to provide value-added enhancements and
distinctive value. The Company believes that its manufacturing organization
has expertise in optoelectronic, electrical and mechanical manufacturing and
assembly of products for commercial applications and for high reliability
applications. High reliability devices and subsystems are those which are
designed, manufactured, screened and qualified to function under exceptionally
severe levels of environmental stress. The manufacturing techniques include
silicon wafer processing and fabrication, manufacture and assembly of
photodiodes, surface mounting (SMT) and manual thru-hole assembly, thick-film
ceramic processing, wire bonding, molding, assembly of components, testing,
and packaging. The Company also has the ability to manufacture plastic parts
and certain other parts that are either not available from third party
suppliers or that can be more efficiently or cost-effectively manufactured in-
house. The Company outsources

                                      12
<PAGE>

certain manufacturing operations including its sheet metal fabrication. The
manufacturing process for components and subsystems consists of manual tasks
performed by skilled and semi-skilled workers as well as automated tasks. The
number of subsystems that the Company manufacturers depends on the customers'
needs and may range from a few subsystems (such as an optoelectronic sun
sensor for use in a satellite) to many thousands (sensors used in laser
printers and bar code readers).

   The principal raw materials and subcomponents used in producing the
Company's optoelectronic devices and subsystems consist of silicon wafers,
ceramics, electronic subcomponents, light emitting diodes, phototransistors,
printed circuit boards, headers and caps, housings, cables, filters and
packaging materials. For cost, quality control and efficiency reasons, the
Company generally purchases raw materials and subcomponents only from single
vendors with whom the Company has ongoing relationships. The Company does,
however, qualify second sources for most of its raw materials and
subcomponents, or has identified alternate sources of supply. The Company
purchases the materials pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time
in the ordinary course of business. The silicon-based optoelectronic devices
manufactured by the Company are critical components in most of its subsystems.
Since 1987, the Company has purchased substantially all of the silicon wafers
it uses to manufacture its optoelectronic devices from Wacker Siltronic Corp.
Although to date the Company has not experienced any significant shortages or
material delays in obtaining any of its raw materials or subcomponents, there
can be no assurance that the Company will not face such shortages or delays in
one or more of these materials in the future.

   Substantially all of the optoelectronic devices, subsystems, circuit boards
and x-ray generators used in the Company's inspection and detection systems
are manufactured in-house. The metal shells of the x-ray inspection systems,
and certain standard mechanical parts are purchased from various third-party
unaffiliated providers.

Patents and Trademarks

   In June 1999, as part of the settlement of an arbitration, the Company
entered into a fully paid-up, nonexclusive patent license agreement with
PerkinElmer, Inc., formerly known as EG&G, Inc. ("EG&G") for U.S. Patent No.
4,366,382. The patent expires in September 2000. Subsequent to the end of the
patent term, the Company will be free to use the technology without patent or
license restriction. Under the license, for which the Company paid $450,000,
the Company is permitted to make, use and sell or otherwise dispose of
security and inspection products that use an x-ray line scan system for
baggage inspection purposes covered by EG&G's patent. The license may require
the Company to make additional, contingent royalty payments of up to $350,000
based on shipment of certain products which incorporate the licensed
technology.

   In December 1998, as part of the settlement of certain litigation, the
Company and Lunar Corporation ("Lunar") made payments to each other which
resulted in a net payment to the Company of $400,000. As part of the
settlement, the parties entered into a license agreement pursuant to which the
Company, Rapiscan and UDT were granted a fully paid up worldwide, nonexclusive
license under U.S. Patent Nos. 4,626,688 (the "688 patent") and 5,138,167 (the
"167 patent") in the non-medical field. The Company paid Lunar $1.5 million
for this fully paid up license.

   Prior to the Company's acquisition of Osteometer in September 1998,
Osteometer had also been involved in litigation with Lunar regarding the 688
and 167 patents. In December 1998, the parties to this litigation entered into
a settlement agreement. As a part of the settlement, the parties entered into
a license agreement pursuant to which Osteometer was granted a worldwide,
nonexclusive license under the 688 and 167 patents for certain bone
densitometers. Osteometer made an initial royalty payment of $250,000 with
respect to products manufactured prior to the entering into of this license
agreement and the Company will make royalty payments on future sales of the
licensed products. The license expires in December 2003 or the last to expire
of the licensed patents, whichever is later.

   Rapiscan owns U.S. Patent No. 5,181,234 covering personnel screening
systems and manufactures the Secure 1000 in accordance to the patent. This
patent was issued in 1993 and expires in 2010. In July 2000,

                                      13
<PAGE>

Rapiscan was awarded U.S. Patent No. 6,094,472 for an X-ray Backscatter
Imaging System relating to improvement of the SECURE(TM) product line. This
patent expires in 2018.

   Rapiscan Security Products utilize the trademarks Rapiscan(R) and
SECURE(TM).

   SMI owns: U.S. Patent No. 5,812,047, expiring in 2017, pertaining to the
manufacture of silicon pressure-sensor devices; U.S. Patent No. 6,089, 099,
expiring in 2018, pertaining to method and application for forming a bonded
silicon-glass pressure sensors; U.S. Patent No. 6,093,579, expiring in 2018,
pertaining to low pressure sensors and the method of manufacture; and U.S.
Patent No. 6,107,170, expiring in 2018, pertaining to silicon sensor contact
with platinum silicide, titanium/tungsten and gold. SMI has other patent
applications pending for various applications; it is unknown at this time if
these patents will be issued.

   Metorex Security's "Metor" trademark is registered in 25 countries,
including the United States, the European Union countries and Japan. Metorex
Security has also registered the trademark "Metorscan" in the United States
and the European Union countries. Metorex Security utilizes four patents
registered in the United States (U.S. Patent Nos. 4,605,898; 5,121,105;
5,047,718; 4,894,619) and other countries, including the European Union
countries. These patents were issued between 1986 and 1995, with expirations
between 2002 and 2008. The patents cover various improvements in metal
detection systems.

   Osteometer owns U.S. Patent No. 6,058,151, expiring 2018, for new region of
interest for monitoring medical treatment for osteoporosis, and U.S. Patent
No. 6,086,538, expiring 2018, for placement of the region of interest based on
an anatomical feature in the calcaneus for ultrasound technology.

   The Company believes that the above patents and trademarks are important to
the Company's business. The loss of some of these patents or trademarks might
have a negative impact; however, the Company operates in a competitive
environment with a known customer base and relies mainly on providing value
for money with quality products and services to ensure continuing business.

Environmental Regulations

   The Company is subject to various federal, state and local environmental
laws, ordinances and regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, and
disposal of certain hazardous substances and wastes used or generated in the
manufacturing and assembly of the Company's products. Under such laws, the
Company may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain
hazardous substances that have been or are being released on or in its
facilities or that have been or are being disposed of off site as wastes. Such
laws may impose liability without regard to whether the Company knew of, or
caused, the release of such hazardous substances. In the past, the Company has
conducted a Phase I environmental assessment report for each of the properties
in the United States at which it currently manufactures products. The purpose
of each such report was to identify, as of the date of that report, potential
sources of contamination of the property. In certain cases, the Company has
received a Phase II environmental assessment report consisting of further soil
testing and other investigations deemed appropriate by an independent
environmental consultant. The Company believes that it is currently in
compliance with all material environmental regulations in connection with its
manufacturing operations, and that it has obtained all material environmental
permits necessary to conduct its business. The amount of hazardous substances
and wastes produced and generated by the Company may increase in the future
depending on changes in the Company's operations. Any failure by the Company
to comply with present or future regulations could subject the Company to the
imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of
manufacturing process or cessation of operations, any of which could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and
results of operations.

Competition

   The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive and
characterized by evolving customer needs and rapid technological change. The
Company competes with a number of other manufacturers, many of which have
significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the
Company. In addition, these competitors may have the ability to respond more
quickly to new or emerging technologies, adapt more quickly to changes in
customer requirements, have stronger customer relationships, have greater name
recognition, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and
sale of their products than does the

                                      14
<PAGE>

Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete
successfully against any current or future competitors in either the
optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor devices and subsystems and medical
imaging systems market or the security and inspection markets or that future
competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect its business,
financial conditions and results of operations.

   In the optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensors devices and subsystems
market, competition for optoelectronic devices and subsystems is based
primarily on such factors as expertise in the design and development of
optoelectronic devices, product quality, timeliness of delivery, price,
customer technical support, and on the ability to provide fully integrated
services from application development and design through volume subsystem
production. The Company believes that its major competitors in the
optoelectronic device and subsystem market are PerkinElmer, Inc.'s Electro-
Optics division, Hamamatsu Corporation, and Honeywell Optoelectronics, a
division of Honeywell, Inc. Because the Company specializes in custom
subsystems requiring a high degree of engineering expertise, the Company
believes that it generally does not compete to any significant degree with any
other large United States, European or Asian manufacturers of standard
optoelectronic components. Competition for the Company's medical imaging
products comes principally from Lunar Corporation, Hologic, Inc. and Norland
Medical Systems, Inc. In the case of silicon pressure-sensors and
microstructures, the Company bases much of its current competitive position on
pressure sensor performance, particularly at low pressures, and process and
manufacturing controls, particularly in the automotive areas. Customer support
and design expertise are also very important. The Company believes that its
primary silicon pressure-sensor competitors include IC Sensors Division of
Measurement Specialties , Inc., Novasensor Division of Lucas Controls, Sensym
ICT, and Motorola Semiconductor group.

   In the fiber optics market, the Company has many competitors, both domestic
and foreign.

   In the security and inspection market, competition is based primarily on
such factors as product performance, functionality and quality, the over-all
cost effectiveness of the system, prior customer relationships, technological
capabilities of the products, price, local market presence, and breadth of
sales and service organization. The Company believes that its principal
competitors in the market for security and inspection products are the
Astrophysics and Vivid Technologies divisions of PerkinElmer, Inc., Heimann
Systems GmbH, InVision Technologies, Inc., American Science and Engineering,
Inc., Barringer Technologies Inc., Control Screening L.L.C., CEIA, SpA,
Garrett Electronics, Inc. and Thermedics Detection, Inc. Competition could
result in price reductions, reduced margins, and loss of market share by the
Company. The Company believes that the principal competitor for its products
using x-ray backscatter detection technology is American Science &
Engineering, Inc. In the airline and airport security and inspection market,
particularly in the upgrade and replacement market, the Company also competes
for potential customers based on existing relationships between its
competitors and the customers. Certain of the Company's competitors have been
manufacturing inspection systems since the 1980s and have established strong
relationships with airlines and airport authorities. The Company believes that
the image quality and resolution of certain of its security and inspection
products is superior to the image quality offered by most of its competitors'
x-ray based inspection products. Additionally, the Company's true multi-zone
technology provides the ability to detect small metallic objects and offer
higher levels of discrimination in weapons-screening applications. Although
the Company also has established relationships with a number of airport and
airline customers, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to
successfully compete in the future with existing competitors or with new
entrants.

Backlog

   The Company measures its backlog as orders for which purchase orders or
contracts have been signed, but which have not yet been shipped and for which
revenues have not yet been recognized. The Company typically ships its
optoelectronic and silicon pressure-sensor devices and subsystems, and medical
imaging systems as well as its security and inspection products within one to
three months after receiving an order. However, such shipments may be delayed
for a variety of reasons including any special design or engineering
requirements of the customer. In addition, large orders (more than ten
machines) of security and inspection products typically require more lead
time.

                                      15
<PAGE>

   Large cargo scanning machines require six to thirty months lead time. The
only significant shipping delays which the Company has experienced are with
large cargo scanners. Such delays can occur for any of the following reasons:
(i) additional time necessary to conduct large cargo inspections at the
factory before shipment; (ii) the customer's needs to engage in timely special
site preparation to accommodate such a scanner, and as to which the Company
has no control or responsibility; and (iii) additional fine tuning of such
scanners once they are installed.

   At June 30, 2000, the Company's backlog products totaled approximately
$54.3 million, compared to approximately $44.1 million at June 30, 1999 and
$46.9 million at June 30, 1998. Most of the Company's backlog as of June 30,
2000, with the exception of a majority of an order for large cargo-scanning
machines valued at approximately $9 million, is expected to be shipped during
the fiscal year ending June 30, 2001. Any failure of the Company to meet an
agreed upon schedule could lead to the cancellation of the related order.
Variations in the size of the order, the product mix, and delivery
requirements of the customer order may result in substantial fluctuations in
backlog from period to period. Backlog as of any particular date should not be
relied upon as indicative of the Company's revenues for any future period and
cannot be considered a meaningful indicator of the Company's performance on an
annual or quarterly basis.

Employees

   As of June 30, 2000, the Company employed approximately 995 people, of whom
720 were employed in manufacturing, 70 were employed in research and
development, 85 were employed in finance and administration, 65 were employed
in sales and marketing, and 55 were employed in its service organization. Of
the total employees, approximately 497 were employed in the United States, 15
in Canada, 158 were employed in Europe, and 325 were employed in Asia, 22
employees at AME and 10 Metorex Security employees in Finland are members of a
union and have collective bargaining rights. Other than the employees of AME
and 10 Metorex Security employees in Finland, none of the Company's other
employees is unionized. There has never been a work stoppage or strike at the
Company, and management believes that its relations with its employees are
good.
