ITEM 1. BUSINESS
------  --------

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information incorporated by
reference herein, includes "forward looking statements" within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act")
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
"Exchange Act"). All of the statements contained in this Item 1, other than
statements of historical fact, should be considered forward-looking statements,
including, but not limited to, the statements relating to the statements
regarding the timing of the marketability of emerging applications; the growth
of the PC camera market; the growth of the number of pictures generated as
different uses of imaging and video emerge; the increased ease of transferring
images across PC systems and communication networks; opportunities for small,
low power, low cost digital still cameras to be integrated directly into
portable devices; the growth of the CMOS image sensor market and the time at
which the CMOS image sensor market will surpass the CCD image sensor market;
the role which new CMOS image sensors will play in moving video applications
into many new mass markets; the suitability of multiple chip image sensors for
many new mass market applications; the advantages derived by us and our
customers from directly working together; our expectation of international
sales continuing to account for a significant portion of our revenues; our
continued investment of significant funds in research and development; our
future success being dependent upon our ability to protect our intellectual
property; our plan to vigorously defend ourselves in lawsuits regarding
intellectual property; our continued evaluation of the benefits of migrating to
a smaller circuit technology, using other color filter vendors and other
packaging technologies and making our testing facilities available to third
parties and the retention of future earnings and the payment of cash dividends.
There can be no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been
correct. Certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from our expectations are disclosed in this Annual Report on Form
10-K, including, without limitation, in the section entitled "Factors Affecting
Future Results" in Item 7. - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation and this section. All subsequent written and
oral forward-looking statements by or attributable to us or persons acting on
our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such factors.

All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on
information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to
update any such forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that any
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are
subject to risks and uncertainties and that actual results may differ
materially from those included within the forward-looking statements as a
result of various factors. These forward-looking statements are made in
reliance upon the safe harbor provision of The Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.


Overview
--------

     We were organized in 1995 as a California corporation and completed a
reincorporation in Delaware in March 2000 prior to our initial public offering.
We design, develop and market high performance, high quality and cost efficient
semiconductor imaging devices for computing, communications, industrial,
automotive and consumer electronics applications. Our main product, an image
sensing device called a CameraChip(tm), is used to capture an image in cameras
and camera related products in high-volume imaging applications such as
personal computer cameras, digital still cameras, security and surveillance
cameras, personal digital assistant cameras and mobile phone cameras and
cameras for automobiles and toys for both still picture and live video
applications. We have developed our CameraChips using the standard
semiconductor manufacturing process used for approximately ninety percent of
modern integrated circuits. This enables us to take advantage of the many
benefits of high volume, mainstream semiconductor manufacturing such as low
cost, high reliability, volume capacity and competitive lead times. In
addition, unlike competitive image sensors, which require multiple chips to
achieve the same functions, we are able to integrate nearly all camera
functions into a single CameraChip. This leads us to believe that we supply the
most highly integrated, single chip image sensing device. Our highly integrated
chip design offers competitive advantages that can allow our customers to
design cameras that are lower in cost, smaller, lighter in weight, consume less
power, are more reliable and more easily integrated with other circuits than
cameras using multiple chip image sensors. Our CameraChips are currently used
for the following applications:

     o digital still cameras, personal computer video cameras, personal digital
       assistant cameras and mobile phone cameras which are used for capturing
       images that can be stored, downloaded, viewed, edited and manipulated,
       and for Internet applications such as creating still and live video for
       websites and e-mail;


                                       3

<PAGE>


     o security and surveillance systems and closed circuit television systems
       including onsite and remote security cameras for both home and business
       and surveillance systems such as baby monitors and door phones; and

     o toys and games such as highly interactive participatory video games
       where the users' motions and images can be incorporated into the game
       and his or her motions, rather than a joystick or mouse, control actions
       in the game.

     We assist our customers in developing new CameraChip specifications that
are required for emerging applications. We believe that these applications will
be marketable within the next three years. Examples of such applications
include:

     o personal identification systems such as fingerprint scanners, retina
       scanners and face recognition systems;

     o medical imaging devices used for routine doctors' office examinations;

     o machine control systems such as bar code readers, production control
       systems and quality inspection systems;

     o automotive applications such as cameras that may replace rear and side
       view mirrors, provide inadvertent lane departure and blind-spot
       collision detection, air bag inflation sensors, rear-approach headlight
       auto-dimming sensors, accident recorders, driver monitors and
       maintenance inspection systems; and

     o videophones integrated in tabletop phones.

     We have shipped approximately 6.0 million CameraChips in the year ended
April 30, 2002, or Fiscal Year 2002, as compared to approximately 6.5 million
CameraChips in the year ended April 30, 2001, or Fiscal Year 2001. Our
customers include industry leading original equipment manufacturers, or OEM,
such as Alaris, Inc., or Alaris, Creative Technologies Ltd., or Creative,
Teksel Co., Ltd., or Teksel, who distributes our products to Kyocera
Corporation, or Kyocera, X10 Wireless Technology, Inc., or X10, and Viewquest
Technologies, Inc., or Viewquest.

     Our objective is to be a leading supplier of CameraChips for camera
manufacturers by:

     o focusing on capturing and expanding mass market applications;

     o targeting camera manufacturers by assisting them in the design and
       development of their products;

     o maintaining our technology leadership by continuing to develop our core
       technology;

     o continuing to develop new products aimed at new and existing markets;
       and

     o continuing to establish both formal and informal strategic relationships
       with key suppliers and customers.


Industry Background
-------------------

   Growth of Digital Video Imaging
   -------------------------------

     Multimedia technology and its uses have grown in the past decade. A
significant driver of this growth in multimedia has been the growth of video
technologies. Many large industries including the movie, television, publishing
and computer industries depend directly on video technologies to create and
deliver their products. Traditionally all video, still image and sound products
were based on analog technologies. More recently, computer based video
technology has been replacing traditional analog image and sound capture
technologies, such as conventional cameras, film and tape recorders. This has
begun to occur because digital technology offers enhanced quality, manipulation
and storage capabilities that analog technologies lack. For example, a movie
recorded and stored digitally can be easily edited and enhanced, can be easily
searched and will not suffer degradation over time.


                                       4

<PAGE>


  The Internet and Miniaturization of Electronics Fuel Demand for Video Imaging
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Video and image capture on PCs was first used in videoconferencing
applications. However, early videoconferencing applications were expensive, and
suffered from poor image quality and inadequate network infrastructure. Video
conferencing grew rapidly as image quality improved and cameras became more
affordable. According to a study published by the Cahners In-Stat Group in July
2001, the market for PC cameras is predicted to grow from approximately 10.5
million units in 2000 to approximately 42.5 million units by 2005. As cameras
became readily available on PCs, applications other than videoconferencing
quickly followed. The introduction of the World Wide Web browser, with its
hypertext and Uniform Resource Locator, or URL, address system, changed the
Internet from a text based system to a multimedia driven network that features
sound, pictures and live video clips. Fueled by the growth of the Internet as a
method to publish, transport and store images, the number of pictures generated
is expected to grow significantly as different uses of imaging and video
continue to emerge. Today PC video cameras are used for capturing still
pictures and live video clips used for web sites, video email, video greeting
cards, web based photo exchanges, desktop publishing and interactive games. As
network bandwidth continues to improve, transferring images across PC systems
and communication networks will become even easier, further driving the demand
for video and multimedia applications.

     Miniaturization has moved computing from the desktop to a wide assortment
of portable and hand held devices including laptops, personal digital
assistants, electronic games and mobile phones. These battery operated devices
are creating an opportunity for small, low power, low cost digital still
cameras to be integrated directly into the portable device so that images can
be captured for transfer to computer systems using wired or wireless methods.
Examples of commercial uses for these captured images include property damage
pictures for insurance claims, images of competitive products for analysis, or
enhancement of computer contact databases.

     The more recent digital still cameras use a live video image sensor to
display a real time image on a miniature, built in display which serves as a
viewfinder. Still images captured by the same image sensor and stored in the
camera are transferred to a computer system for viewing, editing, transmitting
and printing. When connected to the computer, digital still cameras can also
function like PC video cameras. These devices have made a significant impact on
the camera market by taking market share from film based cameras and are one of
the fastest growing consumer electronic products.

   Advances in Image Sensor Technology
   -----------------------------------

     Image sensors are at the center of all electronic cameras. Image sensors
capture an image through a lens and convert that image into electronic signals.
Charged couple device, or CCD, technology has dominated the image sensor market
for over 25 years. However, production is concentrated with relatively few,
large, primarily vertically integrated manufacturers. According to the Cahners
July 2001 study, the top six CCD image sensor manufacturers, Fuji Corporation,
or Fuji, Matsushita Electric Industrial, or Matsushita, Nippon Electric
Corporation or NEC, Sharp Corporation, or Sharp, Sony Corporation, or Sony, and
Toshiba Corporation, or Toshiba, account for approximately 97.1% of total CCD
image sensor production.

     A newer, easier to use semiconductor technology, complementary metal oxide
semiconductor, or CMOS, has been adopted for most common integrated circuits.
Although CMOS technology has been available for image sensor designs for over
20 years, until recently it has not been used in commercial products because of
poorer image quality. Recent improvements in CMOS, including smaller size
circuits, better current control, and a more stable fabrication process, have
made it possible to design CMOS image sensors that provide high image quality
and that have many advantages over CCD image sensors.

   Advantages of CMOS Over CCD Technology
   --------------------------------------

     CMOS technology has many advantages over CCD technology including:

     o Cameras using CMOS image sensors consume as little as one tenth as much
       power as those using CCD technology, making them more suitable for
       battery operated applications.

     o CMOS image sensors require only one voltage, the three or five volts
       typically used for modern integrated CMOS circuits, while CCD image
       sensors require three separate and different voltages, which means that
       CMOS image sensors are easier and less costly to integrate into
       companion circuit boards.


                                       5

<PAGE>


     o CMOS technology permits integration of more functions into fewer chips,
       providing space, cost, product design and reliability advantages.
       Cameras using CMOS technology do not require as many semiconductors as
       cameras using CCD technology.

     o The CMOS fabrication process requires fewer masking steps than the CCD
       fabrication process. The CCD fabrication process generally requires 20
       to 40 masking steps, which is two to three times more complex than the
       typical CMOS fabrication process.

     o CMOS image sensors do not cause an image to lose definition when
       directed towards bright light while CCD image sensors create a blurry or
       smeared image.

     In addition, since CCD technology is used only for image sensors, future
improvements in the core technology and the fabrication process are
concentrated among a few large, vertically integrated equipment manufactures.
Such concentration tends to limit innovation and investments. Because of the
advantages of CMOS technology as compared to CCD technology, CMOS image sensors
are projected to constitute the majority of all image sensor units shipped by
2004 according to the Cahners July 2001 study. Again, according to that study,
Cahners forecasts that CMOS's share of the image sensor market will grow from
approximately 29.4% in 2000 to 76.8% in 2005. In particular, Cahners In-Stat
Group predicts that in 2005, approximately 100.0% of the expected 42.5 million
PC cameras will use CMOS image sensors. Cahners In-Stat Group also predicts
that in 2005, CMOS technology will account for approximately 41.5% of the 41.0
million digital still cameras.

   Applications for CMOS Image Sensors
   -----------------------------------

     Based on discussions with current and potential customers, we anticipate
that the newer CMOS image sensors will help move video applications into many
new mass markets, particularly where low cost, low power consumption and small
size are important. Some of these applications include:

     o a wide array of personal identification systems, including fingerprint
       scanners, retina scanners and face recognition systems that can be used
       for credit card and debit card authorization, opening a hotel door,
       entering a car or home, accessing a computer or online network, and any
       number of applications where a system needs to validate an individual's
       identity;

     o a wide array of medical instruments used for routine doctors' office
       examinations;

     o videophones integrated into tabletop phones;

     o automotive applications such as cameras that may replace rear and side
       view mirrors, sensors that provide inadvertent lane departure and blind
       spot collision detection, air bag inflation sensors, rear-approach
       headlight auto-dimming sensors, accident recorders, driver monitors and
       maintenance inspection systems; and

     o machine control applications, including bar code readers, production
       control systems and quality control monitors.

     However, we believe that multiple chip CMOS image sensors do not fully
take advantage of the benefits enabled by CMOS technology. Image sensors that
require more than one chip are more expensive, larger and heavier, consume more
power, are less reliable and are more difficult to integrate with other
electronic circuits. As a result, multiple chip image sensors may not be ideal
for many new mass-market applications.


Our Solution
------------

     We design, develop and market our high performance, high quality and cost
efficient CameraChips for computing, communications, industrial, automotive,
and consumer electronics applications. We have developed our CameraChips using
the standard CMOS manufacturing process used for approximately 90% of modern
integrated circuits. Our proprietary circuit design integrates the image
capture, the image processing function, the color processing and the conversion
and output into a single chip. The result is a fully processed and formatted
image or video stream capable of being easily utilized by industry standard
digital or analog equipment. This allows


                                       6

<PAGE>


integrators of our technology to focus on their specific image application
without specialized development or specific expertise on image sensor
functions.

     As a result, unlike competitive image sensors, which require multiple
chips to achieve the same functions, we are able to integrate nearly all the
camera functions into a single chip. Customers can use our highly integrated
CameraChip to design camera products that are lower in cost, smaller in size,
lighter in weight, consume less power and are more reliable and easier to
integrate with other electronic circuits than cameras using the traditional CCD
technology or multiple chip CMOS image sensors. Our CameraChips are used in
conjunction with our interface chips or other manufacturers' adaptor chips to
connect directly to a personal computer or to provide additional functions such
as video and still image compression.

     Our CameraChips provide a number of benefits to our customers, including
the following:

     o Lower Cost. The highly integrated design of our CameraChips allows our
       ----------
       customers to build cameras that are generally less expensive than ones
       using CCD technology. Our single chip technology also allows our
       customers to build cameras that generally are less expensive than
       cameras using multiple chip CMOS image sensors.

     o Lower Power Consumption. A device using our CameraChip can require as
       -----------------------
       little as one tenth of the power required for a CCD camera and half the
       power required for a multiple chip CMOS camera, making our solution more
       suitable for battery powered operation. In addition, CMOS CameraChips
       use a single voltage while CCD image sensors require three voltages. As
       a result of this simplicity, our customers can more easily and quickly
       design camera products.

     o Smaller Size. Our highly integrated chip design allows our customers to
       ------------
       develop cameras that are smaller in size and lighter in weight than
       cameras that use CCD or multiple chip CMOS image sensors. For portable
       applications, size and weight are critical factors in a consumer's
       buying decision. Additionally, devices using our CameraChips are
       generally more reliable because there are fewer parts to fail.

     o Streamlined Manufacturing and Production. Our CameraChips are well
       ----------------------------------------
       suited for large-scale production.  Competing CCD image sensors must
       each be individually hand calibrated to match companion components to
       maximize the image quality due to the inconsistency of the image output.
       Our CameraChips provide consistent quality making streamlined
       manufacturing possible. Additionally, our CameraChips can be mounted
       onto a printed circuit board using automatic insertion equipment and can
       run through standard automatic re-flow soldering lines, whereas CCD
       image sensors must each be individually placed and soldered by hand.

     o Ease of Use. Our CameraChips are offered as part of a complete design
       -----------
       solution for many markets. As opposed to CCD and other CMOS image sensor
       manufacturers, we offer a complete solution for our customers which
       includes camera designs, optimized interface chips, and Windows(r) and
       Apple Computer iMac(r) software drivers to enable a plug and play
       connection of the camera to a personal computer.

     o Accelerated Time to Market. The highly integrated nature of our
       --------------------------
       CameraChips simplifies the design of cameras and allows our customers to
       shorten their product design time. We also help our customers accelerate
       their time to market by providing camera reference designs, engineering
       design review services and customer product evaluation testing and
       debugging services.


Products
--------

     We design, develop and market our high performance, high quality and cost
efficient CMOS CameraChips for computing, communications, industrial,
automotive and consumer electronics applications.

     We have developed proprietary designs for CameraChips that include the
image capture, image processing circuitry, color processing and image
formatting. Our products allow our customers to control the chip functions and
thereby provide custom, proprietary features in their application software or
hardware design so that they can offer unique products to end users. Our
technology provides a platform for different products that allow our customers
to choose the most appropriate features for their applications. These features
include:


                                       7

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                               Product Features
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>
Complementary Metal Oxide
Semiconductor CameraChip       Black and white or color
                               Low resolution
Resolutions                    Medium resolution
                               High resolution
Output Signal                  Analog (for television)
                               Digital (for computers & other digital devices)
Operating Voltage              5 volt or 3 volt
Optical Lens Size              1/6, 1/5, 1/4, 1/3 or 1/2 inch format
Interface Chips                For connecting to computers & other devices
Software Drivers               Windows, Windows CE, Linux and Apple(tm)
                                 computer software drivers


</TABLE>

     The following table summarizes our current CameraChip product offerings:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                             CMOS CameraChips
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Product
  Black and    Color                                               Introduction
White Sensors Sensors Resolution        Output      Target Markets     Date
------------- ------- ---------- ------------------ --------------     ----
  <S>        <C>     <C>        <C>                <C>               <C>
   OV5116             Low        NTSC or PAL for TV Security and
                                                      surveillance     2/01
                                                    Toys and games
   OV7410     OV7910  Medium     NTSC or PAL for TV Security and
                                                      surveillance
                                                    Close circuit      2/99
                                                      television
                                                    Toys and games
   OV6120     OV6620  Low        For computers      PC video cameras
                                                    Toys and games     4/99
                                                    Machine control
   OV6130     OV6630  Low        For computers      PC video cameras
                                                    Toys and games     2/00
                                                    Machine control
   OV6140     OV6640  Low        For computers      Mobile devices
                                                      (3.3 Volt)       7/01
                                                    PC video cameras
   OV7120     OV7620  Medium     For computers      PC video cameras
                                                    Digital still
                                                      cameras         10/99
                                                    Machine control
   OV7130     OV7630  Medium     For computers      Mobile devices
                                                      (3.3 Volt)
                                                    PC video cameras
                                                    Digital still      7/01
                                                      cameras
                                                    Machine control

   OV8110     OV8610  Medium     For computers      PC video cameras
                      High                          Digital still      2/01
                                                      cameras
                                                    Machine control
   OV9120     OV9620  High       For computers      PC video cameras
                                                    Digital still     10/01
                                                      cameras
                                                    Machine control

</TABLE>

     We also provide companion chips used to interface our CameraChips to the
universal serial bus, a connection which allows add-on devices to be connected
to personal computers. These low cost, proprietary designed chips accept the
live video output from our CameraChips, perform data compression and handle the
bus protocol for transferring the image data to the personal computer. They
also act as a master for passing programming information to and from our
CameraChip.

     We also design, develop and license plug and play software drivers for
Microsoft Windows and Apple Computer iMac system. These software drivers accept
the image data being received from the universal serial bus, provide the data
decompression if required and manage interface protocols with the camera. These
drivers have been


                                       8

<PAGE>


designed for speed and flexibility and allow easy customization of the user
interface to represent the customer's brand to the end-user.


Customers
---------

     Our customers include industry leading camera manufacturers, contract
manufacturers and distributors. During Fiscal Year 2002, we shipped
approximately 6.0 million CameraChips as compared to approximately 6.5 million
CameraChips during Fiscal Year 2001. The following table describes
representative camera manufacturer customers who purchase our products for
their own branded products and contract manufacturers who build products for a
camera manufacturer. Also shown are representative distributors who purchase
our products for resale.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

            Customer            Product Family                 Markets
            --------            --------------                 -------
            Camera Manufacturer and Contract Manufacturer Customers
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                       <C>                           <C>
Alaris, Inc.               Color digital CameraChips     Toys and games
                           Color analog CameraChips
COMedia Ltd.               Black and white analog        Security and
                             CameraChips                   surveillance
                           Color analog CameraChips
Concord Camera HK Limited  Color digital CameraChips     Digital still cameras
                                                         Cell phone accessory
Creative Technologies      Color digital CameraChips     PC video cameras
  Limited                  USB interface companion chips Digital still cameras
CRS Electronic Co.         Color analog CameraChips      Toys and games
Curitel Communications,
  Inc.                     Color digital CameraChips     Embedded cell phone
Mtek Vision Co., Ltd.      Color digital CameraChips     PC video cameras
                           USB interface companion chips
Olympus Optical Co., Ltd.  Color digital CameraChips     Security and
                           Color analog CameraChips        surveillance
                                                         PC video cameras
Philips Portuguosa, SA     Color digital CameraChips     PC video cameras
  Sector Industrial de     USB interface companion chips
  Ovar
Samsung Electro-Mechanics  Color digital CameraChips     PC video cameras
  Co., Ltd.                USB interface companion chips
Teksel Co. Ltd./Kyocera    Color digital CameraChips     Cell phone accessory
Viewquest Technologies,    Color digital CameraChips     PC video cameras
  Inc.                     USB interface companion chips
Welch Allyn Corporation    Black and white analog        Bar code readers
                             CameraChips
                           Color analog CameraChips
X10 Wireless Technology,   Color analog CameraChips      Security and
  Inc.                                                     surveillance

                                  Distributors
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC Development Co., Ltd.  Color digital CameraChips     PC video cameras
  (Hong Kong)              Black and white digital       Digital still cameras
                             CameraChips                 Security and
                           Color analog CameraChips        surveillance
                           USB interface companion chips General purpose
                                                           cameras
World Peace Industrial     Color digital CameraChips     PC video cameras
  (Taiwan)                 Black and white digital       Digital still cameras
                             CameraChips                 Security and
                           Color analog CameraChips        surveillance
                           USB interface companion chips General purpose
                                                           cameras

</TABLE>

     In many cases, our camera manufacturer customers outsource manufacturing
functions to third parties. In these cases we typically help these third party
manufacturers bring the design to production. Once the production is ready, we
sell our products to these third party manufacturers either directly or through
distributors. For example, Samsung Electronics Manufacturing Company, or SEMCO,
a major manufacturer in Korea, manufactures a personal digital assistant camera
for Creative. In many cases these third party manufacturers may also introduce
us to additional camera manufacturers with whom they have relationships.


                                       9


<PAGE>

     In Fiscal Year 2002, approximately 66% of our revenues were derived from
camera manufacturers and their contract manufacturers. Our largest customer,
X10, accounted for approximately 20% of our revenues. No other single camera
manufacturer customer represented more than 10% of revenues.

     In Fiscal Year 2002, approximately 34% of our revenues were derived from
distributors. The largest distributor was World Peace Industrial Co. Ltd., or
World Peace, which represented approximately 15% of revenues. No other single
distributor represented more than 10% of revenues. We have signed distribution
agreements with most of our distributors, including World Peace.


Strategic Relationships
-----------------------

     We have established an informal strategic relationship with Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp., or TSMC, both in Taiwan and in the United
States. TSMC is one of our primary sources of wafer fabrication. This
relationship includes joint engineering projects aimed at improving production
yields, improving image quality and correlating final packaged chip testing and
wafer level testing. We provide extensive, in depth technical expertise on
CameraChip design issues, which has allowed TSMC to develop an image sensor
production business. TSMC provides us with extensive, in depth technical
expertise on variations of the CMOS semiconductor fabrication process which
assists us in improving the design and production of our CameraChips. We are
one of TSMC's largest customers for CMOS image sensors and in the past we have
received preferential capacity scheduling.

     We have signed an agreement with Powerchip Semiconductor Corp., or PSC, as
a second source for wafer fabrication. By working closely with PSC's engineers,
we have been able to design new CameraChip products that take advantage of
PSC's memory chip fabrication processes. PSC's fabrication process gives us a
number of important improvements, including better current control for better
image quality. In return, we have assisted PSC in image sensor fabrication.

     We have several informal strategic relationships with key customers in the
development of new camera products incorporating our CameraChips. By working
directly with key customers, we can help them take advantage of our
CameraChips' capabilities and can inform them of new developments so they can
market their products more quickly. By learning more about our customers'
desires and requirements we are able to plan and prioritize our product
development projects. Some of these key customers include Creative, for PC
video cameras and digital still cameras, Alaris for cameras for toys, Viewquest
for PC video cameras, Teksel/Kyocera for cameras for mobile telephones, Welch
Allyn for cameras for bar code readers, and X10 for cameras for home
entertainment and surveillance cameras.


Sales and Marketing
-------------------

     We sell our products through a direct sales force and indirectly through
distributors and manufacturer's representatives. As of April 30, 2002, our
sales and marketing organizations had a total of 36 employees. We also have 18
independent distributors and manufacturers' representatives, four of whom are
domestic and 14 of whom are located outside the United States. We continuously
evaluate whether to use a direct sales force or to utilize independent
representatives in a particular region or for a given potential customer
depending upon the scope of the potential sales opportunities. Sales outside of
the United States represented 74% of revenues in Fiscal Year 2002, 84% of
revenues in Fiscal Year 2001, and 78% of revenues for the fiscal year ended
April 30, 2000, or Fiscal Year 2000. Sales outside of the United States are
primarily denominated in U.S. dollars in order to reduce the risks associated
with the fluctuations of foreign currency exchange rates. We expect that sales
outside of the United States will continue to account for a significant portion
of our revenues.

     In Fiscal Year 2002, we sold our CameraChips to camera manufacturers who
market camera products under their own brand. We also sold CameraChips to large
manufacturing companies that produce camera products for others to market under
different brand names. Through our relationships, we have developed expertise
in the design of cameras. We have used that expertise to assist our customers
in developing their products which incorporate our CameraChips. We also have
provided reference designs and engineering design review and engineering
product evaluation testing and debugging services for our customers.


                                      10


<PAGE>


Technology
----------

     We have key technical competencies in analog signal processing design,
mixed signal circuit design, advanced CMOS CameraChip design, automatic testing
and single chip semiconductor design.

   Analog Circuit Design
   ---------------------

     We have in-house expertise to design sophisticated analog semiconductor
circuits. This expertise is unique because most semiconductor design engineers
today work in the area of digital circuit design. Our in-house expertise has
allowed us to process the video data captured in the analog domain, which has
many significant advantages over digital processing. Analog processing works
directly on the original image signals without the loss of data typical with
conversion to digital processing. Analog circuits require considerably less
space which means we can design smaller chips with far less noise caused by
heat or cross talk than digital circuits. The image processing circuits take
approximately 20% to 30% of the space in our typical CameraChip design, leaving
70% to 80% for the image sensing array. Most CCD image sensors and other
competitive CMOS image sensor products convert the image signal to digital as
the very first step and then export the data to another chip for image
processing and formatting. In our digital output product designs, conversion to
a digital signal is the last step taken before the output step rather than the
first. Analog processing is the key for integrating all the functions on a
single chip thereby taking full advantage of the benefits of CMOS technology.

   Analog Output Designs
   ---------------------

     Our analog output CameraChips are designed to output a PAL or NTSC video
signal that can be used directly by standard television equipment without any
additional conversion technology. These CameraChips take advantage of the
analog processing technology on our digital output chips. Prior to output, the
signal is formatted specifically for industry-adopted television standards.
There is no digital conversion on our analog output CameraChips.  CCD image
sensors and other competitive CMOS image sensor products that process their
images in a digital format must convert their video signal to a standard
television format in a separate chip in order to generate the same output,
resulting in an increase in complexity, cost and space needed for a product
design.

   Mixed Analog/Digital Circuit Design
   ----------------------------------

     We have developed extensive in house expertise in the technology of mixing
analog and digital signals in the same semiconductor design without suffering
the common problems of interference from noise caused by heat or crosstalk. We
use digital circuits in our CameraChips to interface to the outside digital
world. We have developed a method of programming the analog processing circuits
which gives our customers extensive and flexible programming capability from
digitally based microprocessors and micro controllers.


   Advanced CMOS CameraChip Design
   -------------------------------

     Our in house semiconductor design engineers are skilled in the design of
high speed, low power and mixed analog/digital CMOS CameraChips. We use
advanced design techniques to develop high speed, highly integrated
semiconductors which can be fabricated using standard CMOS processes and which
can be manufactured using conventional low cost packages.

   Automatic Testing
   -----------------

     Automatic testing methods and equipment designed for conventional CMOS
devices are not sufficient for testing an image sensor. In addition to testing
all the normal logic and electrical functions, an optical test must be
performed on the image sensor. In our proprietary testing process, the
CameraChip is turned on and captures a live image, which is subsequently
analyzed for quality and color. Our in house expertise has allowed us to design
automatic testing equipment, specifically for CMOS image sensors. Using low
cost commercially available modules and components, we have designed and
developed a complete microcomputer based testing system that has automatic
handling capability, an image source, a lighting and lens system and automatic
output sorting. This low cost system is programmable so that testing criteria
and testing methodology can be easily changed and can be replicated to meet
increased production requirements. The system produces detailed reports on test
results that are used for feedback to our quality control and operations
department.

                                      11


<PAGE>


   Single Chip Semiconductor Design
   --------------------------------

     Our expertise has allowed us to create single chip CMOS image sensing
devices. Our single chip integrates the image capture, the image processing,
the color processing and conversion and output for either television or
computers.


Research and Development
------------------------

     The internal design of our CMOS CameraChips has been done in a modular
fashion. The major functions, such as the image capture, image sensor control
logic, color processing, analog output, digital output and programming control,
are stand alone circuits that can rapidly be modified or used in new product
developments. As a result, circuit improvements easily migrate to each new
product, and the total development time and cost for new products is greatly
reduced.

     We use a team approach to design new products, which includes a senior
design engineer and additional engineers with specific design expertise. As of
April 30, 2002, we had a total of 53 employees in research and development.

     We have invested, and expect that we will continue to invest, significant
funds in research and development. Our research and development expenses were
approximately $7.8 million in Fiscal Year 2002, $5.5 million in Fiscal Year
2001, and $3.7 million in Fiscal Year 2000.


Intellectual Property
---------------------

     Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability
to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent,
copyright, trademark and trade secrets, as well as nondisclosure agreements and
other methods to protect various aspects of our CameraChips such as the image
capture and the image processing circuit. As of April 30, 2002, we have been
issued 19 United States patents. We have also received 11 foreign patents. We
have filed and pending 31 additional United States patent applications, of
which two have been allowed. These patents and patent applications protect the
single chip image sensor design, noise reduction and cancellation circuits,
image enhancement, color processing, and applications technologies of our
semiconductor CameraChips.

     From time to time, we have been subject to legal proceedings and claims
with respect to such matters as patents and other actions arising out of the
normal course of business. It is possible that companies might pursue
litigation with respect to any claims such companies purport to have against
us. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain.  In the event of an
adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual property rights
relevant to our products that could arise in the future, we could be required
to obtain licenses to the infringing technology, pay substantial damages under
applicable law, including treble damages if we are held to have willfully
infringed, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products or to
expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology.  Litigation
frequently involves substantial expenditures and can require significant
management attention, even if we ultimately prevail.


Manufacturing
-------------

   Wafer Fabrication
   -----------------

     Our semiconductor products are fabricated using standard CMOS processes,
which permit us to engage independent wafer foundries to fabricate our
semiconductors. By outsourcing our manufacturing to semiconductor foundries, we
are able to avoid the high cost of owning and operating a semiconductor wafer
fabrication facility. This allows us to focus our resources on the design,
development and marketing of our CameraChips.

     We outsource our wafer manufacturing to TSMC and PSC. Our CameraChips are
currently fabricated using a standard process at 0.25, 0.40, 0.50 and 0.60
microns. We continue to evaluate the benefits and feasibility of migrating to a
smaller circuit technology in order to reduce costs or to increase quality and
performance.


                                      12

<PAGE>


     We have signed agreements with Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., or Samsung,
and CoAsia Microelectronics Corp., Samsung's sales agent, under which Samsung
fabricates one of our interface chips on its standard fabrication line. Samsung
not only fabricates the wafers, but also packages the chips and performs a
final test, delivering a final product that can be shipped by CoAsia
Microelectronics Corp. directly to our customers when required. We also
purchase selected interface chips from Winbond Electronics Corp., or Winbond,
for re-sale to our customers.

   Color Filter Application
   ------------------------

     A majority of our unit sales of CameraChips for Fiscal Year 2002 are color
CameraChips. These require a color filter to be applied to the wafer before
packaging. This color filter application uses a series of masks to place red,
green and blue dyes on the individual picture elements in an industry standard
Bayer pattern. As a final step, a micro lens is applied to each picture
element. We outsource the application of our color filters to Toppan Printing
Co., Ltd. in Japan and to TSMC in Taiwan.

   Assembly
   --------

     After wafer fabrication, and color filter application if required, the
wafers are diced into chips, which are then assembled into packages. Our
products are designed to use low cost standard packages that are widely in use
for optical sensor chips. These packages have a glass lid to allow light to
pass through to the image sensor array. In Fiscal Year 2002, we outsourced the
majority of our packaging requirements to Alphatec Semiconductor Packaging Co.,
or Alphatec, in Thailand, Pan Pacific Semiconductor Co., Ltd., or PPSC, in
Taiwan, and Kyocera in Japan. We continue to evaluate the benefits of using
other vendors and other packaging technologies in order to further reduce costs
or increase quality or performance.

   Testing
   -------

     High volume product testing is an important part of the production of
CameraChips and is a substantial barrier to entry for many companies.
Production testing equipment designed for conventional CMOS devices is not
sufficient for testing image sensors because an optical image must be captured
and checked in addition to checking the normal logic and electrical functions.
The few commercially available image sensor testers are expensive and do not
meet our high standards.

     We have designed our own automatic test equipment, using readily available
modules and components. These testers are computer based and have automatic
handling capability, a lighting and lens system, a changeable image source and
automatic output sorting by grade. The system is programmable so that testing
criteria and methodology can be changed easily to accommodate new products or
special testing requests. Our cost to build a system is substantially less than
that of commercially available testers. We can expand our production capability
by building additional systems at a low cost. Current testing capacity is in
excess of one million units per month.

     Our policy is to do a complete optical test of all our CameraChips.
Currently, substantially all of our testing is done on our testing machines
installed at our headquarters facility in Sunnyvale, California, although a
very small amount of testing for a few older products is done by hand by a
third party. We continue to evaluate the benefits of making our testing
machines available to outside vendors who could perform our testing in order to
reduce costs.

     We use the reports from our testing machines to monitor the cause of any
failure in order to place responsibility with the appropriate vendor, i.e.
wafer fabrication, color filter application or packaging and to assist with
corrective actions. Since CameraChips are optical products, the exposure to
impurities is a major concern during the color filter application and packaging
process. We use test data to establish yield goals at each step of the
manufacturing process and to take appropriate remedial action.

   Quality Assurance
   -----------------

     We focus on product quality through all stages of the design and
manufacturing process. Our designs are subjected to in depth circuit simulation
before being committed to silicon. Test wafers are fabricated and test chips
are packaged and live tested before a new product is committed to production.
Initial production runs are kept at a minimum until sufficient products have
completed the entire manufacturing and testing process and are delivered to and
approved by customers. Full production runs are committed at that time.


                                      13


<PAGE>


     We qualify each of our vendors through a series of industry standard
environmental product stress tests, as well as an audit and an analysis of the
subcontractor's quality system and manufacturing capability. We also
participate in quality and reliability monitoring through each stage of the
production cycle by reviewing electrical parametric data from our foundries and
other subcontractors. We closely monitor wafer foundry production to obtain
consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels.


Competition
-----------

     We compete in an industry characterized by intense competition, rapid
technological changes, evolving industry standards, declining average selling
prices and rapid product obsolescence. We believe that the principal factors
affecting competition in our markets are time to market, quality, total system
design cost, availability of foundry capacity, customer support and supplier
reputation. Our primary competition comes from CCD image sensor manufacturers
and multi-chip CMOS image sensor manufacturers:

     o CCD Image Sensor Manufacturers. Image sensor manufacturers using CCD
       technology include a number of well-established companies, particularly
       vertically integrated camcorder and high-resolution digital still camera
       manufacturers. Our main competition comes from the top six companies
       that collectively account for approximately 97.1% of the total CCD image
       sensor market, according to the Cahners In-Stat Group. These six
       companies are Fuji, Matsushita, NEC, Sharp, Sony, and Toshiba.

     o Multiple-chip CMOS Image Sensor Manufacturers. Image sensor
       manufacturers using CMOS technology include a number of well established
       companies such as Agilent Technologies, Inc., ST Microelectronics,
       Conexant Systems, Inc., Hyundai Electronics Industries Co. Ltd.,
       Mitsubishi Electronic, Motorola, Inc., and Toshiba Corporation. In
       addition, we compete with a large number of smaller CMOS manufacturers
       including Zoran Corporation, or Zoran, and IC Media Corporation.

     Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies
that have greater access to advanced wafer foundry capacity, substantially
greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources,
broader product lines, access to large customer bases and longer standing
relationships with suppliers and customers than we do.


Backlog
-------

     Sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders. Our backlog
includes only those customer orders for which we have accepted purchase orders
and assigned shipment dates within the upcoming twelve months. As of April 30,
2002 and 2001, our backlog was approximately $11.7 million and $8.3 million,
respectively. Although our backlog is typically filled within two to four
quarters, our current backlog is subject to changes in delivery schedules and
backlog may not necessarily be an indication of future revenue.


Employees
---------

     As of April 30, 2002 we had a total of 119 full-time employees, 94 located
at our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California and 25 in foreign sales support
offices located in Taiwan, China, Republic of South Korea and Japan. Our future
success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and
motivate highly qualified technical and management personnel. None of our
employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have
never experienced any work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are
good.


                                      14


<PAGE>


Executive Officers of the Registrant
------------------------------------

     The following table sets forth, as of April 30, 2002, certain information
concerning our executive officers and directors:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                 Name              Age                 Position
---------------------------------  ---  ---------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>  <C>
Shaw Hong........................  64   Chief Executive Officer, President and
                                          Director
Qi Dong..........................  36   Vice President of Systems
Xinping He.......................  38   Vice President of Core Technologies
John A. Lynch....................  37   Vice President of Sales and Marketing
H. Gene McCown...................  66   Vice President of Finance and Chief
                                          Financial Officer
Robert J. Stroh..................  62   Vice President of Strategic Marketing
                                          and Business Development
Raymond Wu.......................  47   Executive Vice President and Director


</TABLE>

     Shaw Hong, one of our cofounders, has served as one of our directors and
     ---------
as our Chief Executive Officer and President since May 1995. Mr. Hong holds a
B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Jiao Tong University in China and an
M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Oregon State University.

     Qi Dong has served as our Vice President of Systems since May 2000. From
     -------
July 1998 to May 2000, Mr. Dong served as a Design Manager in our Core
Technologies Group. Mr. Dong joined our company in February 1996 and served as
a Senior Design Engineer until his promotion in July 1998. Mr. Dong holds a
B.S. degree and an M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Tsinghua
University in Beijing.

     Xinping He has served as our Vice President of Core Technologies since May
     ----------
2000. From July 1998 to May 2000, Mr. He served as a Design Manager in our Core
Technologies Group. Mr. He joined our company in June 1995 and served as a
Senior Design Engineer until his promotion in July 1998. Mr. He holds a B.S.
degree and an M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Tsinghua University in
Beijing.

     John A. Lynch has served as our Vice President of Sales and Marketing
     -------------
since August 2001. From May 2000 to August 2001, Mr. Lynch served as Vice
President of Sales of SCM Microsystems Inc., a technology company providing
chips and products to the digital camera, digital TV and video editing markets.
From April 1995 to May 2000, Mr. Lynch served in various sales and marketing
management positions at SCM Microsystems Inc. Mr. Lynch attended Brigham Young
University where he majored in International Relations.

     H. Gene McCown has served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief
     --------------
Financial Officer since July 1999. From July 1998 to January 1999, Mr. McCown
served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Innovative
Robotic Solutions, Inc., a manufacturer of semiconductor equipment. From July
1991 to July 1998, Mr. McCown served as Vice President of Finance and Chief
Financial Officer of Chrontel, Inc., a semiconductor manufacturer. Mr. McCown
holds a B.S. degree in Accounting from San Jose State University.

     Robert J. Stroh has served as our Vice President of Strategic Marketing
     ---------------
and Business Development since November 2000. From June 1998 to November 2000,
Mr. Stroh served as our Vice President of Sales and Marketing. From January
1997 to June 1998, Mr. Stroh served as our Director of Marketing and Sales. Mr.
Stroh holds an M.B.A. degree from Indiana University and a B.S. degree in
Business from Pennsylvania State University.

     Raymond Wu, one of our cofounders, has served as one of our directors
     ----------
since May 1995 and as our Executive Vice President since October of 1999. From
July 1998 to October 1999, Mr. Wu served as our Vice President of Business
Development. From May 1995 to July 1998, Mr. Wu was the head of our Sales
department and our Engineering department. Mr. Wu received a B.S. degree in
Electrical Engineering from Chung-Yuan University in Taiwan and an M.S. degree
in Electrical Engineering from Wayne State University.

