ITEM 1.  Business

PMC-Sierra,  Inc.  designs,  develops,  markets  and  supports a broad  range of
high-performance  integrated  circuits primarily used in the  telecommunications
and data networking  industries.  We have more than 120 different  semiconductor
devices  that are sold to leading  equipment  manufacturers,  who in turn supply
their equipment  principally to  communications  network  service  providers and
enterprises.  We provide superior  semiconductor  solutions for our customers by
leveraging our intellectual  property,  design  expertise and systems  knowledge
across a broad range of applications.

PMC-Sierra   was   incorporated   in  the  State  of   California  in  1983  and
reincorporated  in the State of Delaware in 1997. Our Common Stock trades on the
Nasdaq  National  Market under the symbol  "PMCS" and is included in the S&P 500
index.

Our principal executive offices are located at 3975 Freedom Circle, Santa Clara,
California 95054, and our phone number is (408) 239-8000.  Our internet homepage
is located at  www.pmc-sierra.com;  however,  the information in, or that can be
accessed through,  our home page is not part of this report.  Our annual reports
on Form 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,  current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments  to such  reports  are  available,  free of charge,  on our  Internet
homepage as soon as reasonably  practicable  after we  electronically  file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.

Our fiscal year ends on the last Sunday of the calendar year.  Fiscal years 2002
and 2001 each consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2000 consisted of 53 weeks. For
ease of presentation, we have referred to December 31 as our fiscal year end for
all years.

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  "PMC-Sierra",  "PMC", "the Company",  "us",
"our" or "we", means PMC-Sierra, Inc. together with our subsidiary companies.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual  Report and the  portions  of our Proxy  Statement  incorporated  by
reference  into this  Annual  Report  contain  forward-looking  statements  that
involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as "anticipates", "believes",
"plans", "expects",  "future", "intends", "may", "will", "should",  "estimates",
"predicts",  "potential",  "continue",  "becoming",  "transitioning" and similar
expressions to identify such forward-looking statements.

These  forward-looking  statements  apply  only as of the  date  of this  Annual
Report.   We  undertake  no  obligation   to  publicly   update  or  revise  any
forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result  of new  information,  future
events or  otherwise.  Our actual  results  could differ  materially  from those
anticipated in these forward-looking  statements for many reasons, including the
risks we face as  described  under  "Factors  That You  Should  Consider  Before
Investing in  PMC-Sierra"  and  elsewhere in this Annual  Report.  Investors are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which
reflect  management's  analysis only as of the date hereof. Such forward-looking
statements include statements as to, among others:

o        business strategy;

o        sales, marketing and distribution;

o        wafer fabrication capacity;

                                       2
<PAGE>

o        competition and pricing;

o        significant accounting policies and accounting estimates;

o        customer networking product inventory levels, needs and order levels;

o        demand for networking equipment;

o        net revenues;

o        gross profit;

o        research and development expenses;

o        marketing, general and administrative expenditures;

o        interest and other income;

o        capital resources sufficiency;

o        capital expenditures;

o        restructuring activities, expenses and associated annualized savings;
         and

o        our business outlook.


INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

The global  markets for  communications  equipment  that  contain  our  products
continued to decline in 2002 primarily due to excess  capacity in  communication
service  provider  infrastructures,  excess inventory levels in the supply chain
and a slowing global  macro-economy.  Despite the fact that  connectivity to the
Internet  increased and web-based  applications  drove higher data  transmission
volumes,  service  providers in North America and Europe reduced spending on new
networking  equipment in 2002. This was largely the result of an overbuilding of
the  network  infrastructure  in the late  1990's  and early  2000 when  capital
markets  fueled  rapid  expansion  of data  networks  and  start-up  competitive
services.  Following this  expansionary  period,  many of the incumbent  service
providers  realized  they had excess  capacity  in their  systems  and could not
sustain  such high  levels of  spending  on new  equipment.  In  addition,  many
competitive service providers were unable to generate sufficient revenues to pay
for their new systems and were subsequently acquired, broken up and divested, or
filed for bankruptcy.

The  contraction  in capital  spending on networking  equipment in 2001 and 2002
resulted in fewer orders for our customers' equipment, and therefore a reduction
in  demand  for our  products.  We sell more  than 120  different  semiconductor
devices to the leading original  equipment  manufacturers  (OEMs) that, in turn,
sell  their  equipment  to end  customers  such  as  telecommunications  service
providers and  enterprises.  The overall  reduction in service  provider capital
spending,  combined  with high levels of  inventories  throughout  the  industry
supply chain, resulted in lower demand for our devices. While equipment spending
in the enterprise market (primarily corporations,  institutions and governments)
was relatively stable compared to service providers, it was not enough to offset
a broader  decline  in  activity  across  the  global  communications  equipment
industry.

Many service  providers  consider it  important  to add capacity and  technology
capability  to  limited  aspects  of  their  networks  as data  traffic  and the
associated  revenues are key growth drivers for their  operations going forward.
To capture a growing portion of this competitive  market,  service providers are
transitioning  their networks from  voice-centric  to data-centric  systems.  In
addition,  network utilization rates are increasing,  absorbing excess capacity,
but also slowing data transmission speed through service providers' networks. In
this environment, it is critical for service providers to upgrade their networks
with more  efficient  equipment  enabling  them to lower  operating  costs while
handling  the  increasing  amount of traffic.  The service  providers  must also
upgrade equipment while lowering capital spending.

                                       3
<PAGE>

In simple terms, the Internet is a hybrid series of networks comprised of copper
wires,  coaxial cables, and fiber optic cables.  These networks carry high-speed
traffic in the form of electrical and optical  signals that are  transmitted and
received  by complex  networking  equipment.  To ensure this  equipment  and the
various networks can easily  communicate with each other, the OEMs and makers of
communications  semiconductors have developed numerous communications  standards
and protocols for the industry.  These  communications  protocols make it easier
for  complex  high-speed  data  traffic  to be sent and  received  reliably  and
efficiently - - whether intra-office, across the country, or internationally.

One industry  standard that packages  information  into a fixed-size cell format
for  transportation  across networks is ATM or Asynchronous  Transfer Mode. Many
service  providers  deploy  equipment that handles this protocol  because it can
support voice, video, data, and multimedia applications simultaneously.

Another  established  industry  standard is called SONET or Synchronous  Optical
Network for high capacity data communication  over fiber optic systems.  This is
used in the Americas and parts of Asia, with the equivalent standard in the rest
of the world called SDH or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy.

In addition to using SONET to increase the  bandwidth,  or capacity of, in their
networks,  many  system  operators  have  also  deployed  equipment  that uses a
technology called dense wave division  multiplexing.  Rather than transmitting a
single  light signal over an optical  fiber,  dense wave  division  multiplexing
allows many  different  light  signals  (each of a different  wavelength)  to be
transmitted  simultaneously.  By deploying this technique at higher transmission
rates, carriers can move more signals across transmission lines.

IP is a transport protocol that maintains network information and routes packets
across  networks.  While IP  packets  are larger and can hold more data than ATM
cells,  service  providers often have  difficulty  providing the same quality of
service with IP because it is not optimized for  time-sensitive  signals such as
video and voice services.

Ethernet is another  protocol that is used  extensively in data  transmission in
local area networks  (LAN) and is now being used in wide area networks  (WAN) as
well.  Service  providers  are  beginning  to deploy  ethernet  because they are
familiar  with the  protocol  and it is a  relatively  efficient  way to  handle
increasing amounts of data moving from the LAN to the WAN.

In some service  provider  networks,  a traffic  bottleneck  can occur where the
high-speed  long-haul traffic is handed off to networking equipment in the metro
area or where storage networks are being  inter-connected.  In general,  service
providers have invested less to enhance the infrastructure in these areas and as
a result,  many of these  systems  have  insufficient  capacity  to  handle  the
increasing level of data traffic.

In response, many OEMs are designing faster and more complex equipment to handle
the higher  volumes in the network.  This  equipment must be able to accommodate
various  protocols  and  formats,  including  cell-based  ATM  and  packet-based
Internet Protocol (IP).

To accommodate  these  different  protocols and the growing demand for services,
many service  providers are requiring  OEMs to provide more complex,  integrated
solutions  in a shorter  time  period.  At the same time,  some of the OEMs have
undergone  significant  corporate  restructurings  and have fewer  resources and
technical staff internally to design their own custom solutions.  This,  coupled
with  the  rising  cost of  custom  semiconductors,  has  resulted  in the  OEMs
outsourcing  more of their  communications  integrated  circuit  requirements to
companies such as PMC-Sierra. This has brought about the acceleration of the use
of standard products of the kind that PMC-Sierra designs and develops.

                                       4
<PAGE>

By  leveraging  the  knowledge  and  technical  expertise of  companies  such as
PMC-Sierra, the OEMs are able to focus their efforts on their core competencies.
In many cases,  it can take several  years before a new silicon chip or chip set
can be designed,  manufactured,  tested,  and released to full  production for a
customer.  It is essential,  therefore,  that  companies  like  PMC-Sierra  that
develop the chips to be  incorporated  into the OEM equipment  work very closely
with their OEM customers so that together they can optimally  meet the equipment
needs of the service providers.


PRODUCTS

We  have  more  than  120  revenue-producing  products  in  our  portfolio.  Our
networking  products  comprise  communications   semiconductors  -  -  including
microprocessors  - -  that  are  used  in  many  different  types  of  equipment
throughout  the network  infrastructure.  While our current  networking  product
development  efforts  are  focusing  on  all  the  four  areas  of  the  network
infrastructure  described  below,  less  than 10% of our  current  revenues  are
derived from the storage and consumer  markets.  One of our key strategies is to
broaden into these markets.

Our  non-networking  segment,  comprised  of a single  chip  used in a  consumer
medical   device,   wound  down  in  the  second  quarter  of  2002,  with  only
insignificant revenues thereafter to meet remaining customer requirements.

Our  networking  products are sold  primarily  into four areas of the  worldwide
network  infrastructure,  which we call Metro, Access,  Enterprise/Storage,  and
Consumer-related  markets.  Many of our products are designed with  standardized
interfaces  between  chips so our  customers  can easily  develop and  implement
solutions involving multiple PMC-Sierra products.

The  following  briefly  describes  PMC-Sierra's  view  of  the  Metro,  Access,
Enterprise/Storage and Consumer-related areas of the internet infrastructure and
some  typical  equipment  that may  include our chips and  chipsets.  Due to the
complexity  of the  telecommunications  network,  it is not  possible to sharply
delineate the networking  functions or markets served. In addition,  many of our
products  may be used in  multiple  classes  of  networking  equipment  that are
deployed  across all of the market  areas  identified  below,  while some of our
other  products  have  highly  specialized   applications.   For  example,   our
microprocessors can be used in many networking  equipment  applications (such as
high-speed  routers or networked  printers),  while our Paladin chip may only be
used in a single application  (power  amplification for wireless base stations).
In some situations,  different OEMs might use our chips or chipsets in equipment
addressing more than one of the market areas noted below.

   o     Access:  this  area of the  telecommunications  network  infrastructure
         encompasses wired and wireless equipment that aggregates  transmissions
         from the home or office and connects  that traffic to the metro and the
         wide area network (WAN). For example,  our semiconductors would be used
         in  equipment  such as digital  subscriber  line  access  multiplexers,
         wireless  base  stations,  add-drop  multiplexers  (which  add and drop
         signals and streams of data from optical  networks) and switches (which
         direct the data traffic to other destinations within the network).

                                       5
<PAGE>

   o     Metro: the metropolitan,  or metro area, of the internet infrastructure
         is predominantly a fiber optic-based  network that provides  high-speed
         communications  and data transfer over a city center or regional  area.
         This portion of the network  manages  traffic inside its own region and
         manages traffic between the access and long-haul transport networks for
         inter-city  or  international  transmission.  Our  products are used in
         metro  equipment  such as switches  and routers that gather and process
         signals in  different  protocols,  and then  transmit  them to the next
         destination as quickly and efficiently as possible.

   o     Enterprise/Storage: this area of the network includes equipment that is
         deployed  primarily  in the  office for data  communications  and other
         local area  network  applications.  Our  products are used in equipment
         such as medium to high-end laser jet printers in the office, as well as
         switches  and storage  devices  that enable data to be  transferred  to
         local telecommunications networks. It includes network attached storage
         equipment  and storage area networks for the  management,  transmission
         and  storage  of  large  amounts  of  data  utilized  by   enterprises,
         corporations and government agencies.

   o     Consumer:   this  area  includes   telecommunications   equipment  used
         primarily by individuals in their homes for entertainment purposes. For
         example,  some of our lower-end  microprocessors  are used in equipment
         such  as  set-top  boxes,   high-definition   TVs  and  personal  video
         recorders.

Our chips and chipsets can also be divided into the broadly  defined  functional
categories  identified  below. As with  descriptions of the network,  particular
categories may overlap and a device may be present in more than one category. In
addition,  some products,  particularly  multiple chip sets, integrate different
functions and could be classified in one or more categories.  For example,  some
of our products both convert  high-speed analog signals to digital signals,  and
also split or combine various transmission signals.

   o     Line interface units: these devices,  also referred to as transceivers,
         transmit and receive signals over a physical medium such as wire, cable
         or fiber.  The line  interface  unit  determines  the speed and  timing
         characteristics of the signals, and may also convert them from a serial
         stream of data into a parallel stream before they are further processed
         for transmission to the next destination.

   o     Framers  and  mappers:  before  the  data  can  be  sent  to  the  next
         destination, it must be converted into a proper format for transmission
         in the network.  For example,  the framing  function  arranges the bits
         into different size formats, commonly referred to as "cell" or "packet"
         formats,  and attaches the  appropriate  information  to the formats to
         ensure  they  reach  their  destinations.  In  turn,  this  data may be
         inserted into other  frames,  such as SONET  frames,  for  transmission
         across high-speed fiber optics.

   o     Packet and cell  processors:  these  devices  examine  the  contents of
         cells,  or  packets,  and  perform  various  management  and  reporting
         functions.  For  instance,  a switch or router may use a packet or cell
         processor  to  determine  if a  signal  is  voice  or video in order to
         allocate the proper  amount of  bandwidth.  Service  providers  can use
         information  gathered  by the cell or  packet  processor  to  determine
         customers' network usage and charge the appropriate service fee.

   o     Traffic  managers  and  switch  fabrics:   traffic  managers  organize,
         schedule and queue cells and packets  into and out of switches.  Switch
         fabrics  interconnect  the wires and  fibers,  allowing  the data to be
         routed to its intended destination.

                                       6
<PAGE>

   o     Serializers/Deserializers:  these devices  convert  networking  traffic
         between slower speed parallel  streams and higher speed serial streams.
         OEMs  use  serial   streams  to  reduce   networking   equipment   line
         connections,  and  parallel  streams to allow them to apply  lower cost
         traffic management technologies.

   o     Microprocessors: these devices perform the high-speed computations that
         help  identify  and  control  the flow of signals  and data in the many
         different  types  of  network  equipment  used  in the  communications,
         enterprise and consumer markets.


STRATEGY

Our  high-speed  semiconductor  solutions  are based on our strong  knowledge of
network applications,  system requirements and networking protocols.  To achieve
our goal of growing and profitably  expanding our business,  we are pursuing the
following key strategies:

Leverage technical expertise across diverse base of applications:

We have a history of analog, digital, mixed signal and microprocessor  expertise
and we integrate many functions and protocols into our products. We leverage our
common technologies and intellectual property across a broad range of networking
equipment.  Many  OEMs  recognize  they can  obtain  highly  complex,  broadband
communications  technology  "off the shelf" from  companies  such as  PMC-Sierra
rather than dedicating their own resources to develop custom chips. We intend to
take advantage of our customers'  growing  requirements to outsource more of the
silicon  content  in their  networking  equipment  which  will allow the OEMs to
reduce their development costs and improve  time-to-market while differentiating
their products in other ways.

Broaden our business into the Enterprise, Storage and Consumer markets:

The  majority  of our  products  are used by OEMs  that  sell  their  networking
equipment to telecommunications service providers worldwide. Over the past year,
however,  we have been  focused  on  directing  many of our  existing  and newly
designed    products   into   new   markets.    For   example,    our   advanced
serialization/de-serialization  devices  are now being used in  transceiver  and
serial  backplane   applications  in  storage  area  networking  and  enterprise
networking  equipment.  Our lower-speed  microprocessors are being designed into
advanced multi-function devices as well as going into consumer applications such
as personal  video  recorders,  set-top  boxes and  high-definition  TVs. We are
working  closely with some of the largest  players in the enterprise and storage
markets  to help  these  customers  design and  develop  standard  semiconductor
solutions that will lower their costs and improve their time to market.

Increase our presence in Asian markets:

Over the past decade,  we have been  developing  strong  relationships  with our
Asian  customers.  In 2002,  just under  one-third  of our total  revenues  were
generated in the Asia Pacific region. Some of our largest customers in Japan and
Korea include Fujitsu,  Ricoh, NEC, Samsung and LG Electronics.  In addition, we
are gaining new customers, many of which are located in the People's Republic of
China,   such  as  ZTE,   Huawei   Technologies,   Fiberhome   Telecommunciation
Technologies,  and Alcatel  Shanghai Bell.  These customers are broadening their
product  offerings to meet the growing  network  infrastructure  requirements in
China and other Asian markets.  To improve our customer  service and penetration
into this  region,  we  appointed a new vice  president to head our Asia Pacific
sales and support team, headquartered in Shanghai.  PMC-Sierra plans to continue
increasing  the  number  of  sales/marketing   personnel  in  our  Asia  Pacific
operations and to add new distribution capabilities in the regional markets.

                                       7
<PAGE>

Provide first-class products, customer service and technical support:

We work very closely with our  customers to ensure they get the best service and
technical support required to assist them with their development efforts. As the
marketplace for telecommunications  equipment suppliers slowly consolidates,  we
believe  our  largest  customers  and their  products  will  take an  increasing
percentage of the overall market in their areas of expertise.  Customers such as
Cisco, Hewlett Packard, Lucent, Nortel, Alcatel,  Samsung,  Fujitsu, Ricoh, ZTE,
Huawei and Juniper are aligning their design and  manufacturing  operations with
key suppliers like PMC-Sierra.


SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

Our sales and  marketing  strategy  is to have our  products  designed  into our
customers'  equipment  by  developing  superior  products  for which we  provide
premium service and technical support.  We maintain close working  relationships
with many of our  customers.  Our marketing  team is focused on  developing  new
products  that meet the needs of our  customers  in our target  markets.  We are
often involved in the early stages of design concerning our customers' plans for
new equipment.  This helps us determine if our existing  products can be used in
their new equipment or if new devices need to be considered for the application.
To assist us in our planning process, we are in regular contact with our largest
customers to discuss industry trends,  emerging  standards and their new product
requirements.

To  promote  our  products,   our  marketing   team  is  actively   involved  in
demonstrating our devices with other industry suppliers and providing  technical
information  at trade shows held in North  America,  Asia and Europe.  Technical
support is  essential  to our  customers'  success,  and we provide this through
field application engineers,  technical marketing and factory systems engineers.
We also  provide  more  detailed  information  and support for our product  line
through our corporate website and special customer-accessible extranet sites. We
believe that providing  comprehensive product service and support is critical to
shortening  customers'  design cycles and maintaining a competitive  position in
the networking market.

We sell our products  both  directly and through  distributors  and  independent
manufacturers'  representatives.  In 2002,  approximately 36% of our orders were
shipped through our distributors;  approximately 45% were sent by us directly to
contract  manufacturers  selected by OEMs; and the balance were sent directly to
our OEM customers.

Our largest  distributor  is Memec Group  Holdings  Ltd.  which  represents  our
products worldwide (excluding Japan, Israel, Taiwan and Australia).  Many of our
customers  are seeking to reduce supply chain costs and are  requesting  that we
ship more of our  products  directly  to the  contract  manufacturers  they have
selected.  Based on this trend,  we expect that over time our largest  customers
will  require  that we ship a higher  percentage  of their  orders  directly  to
contract  manufacturers  and a lower  percentage  will be  shipped  through  our
distributors.

                                       8
<PAGE>

A summary of our domestic and  international  net revenues and long-lived assets
is presented in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. More
than half of our net revenues were generated in the United States in each of the
three years ended December 31, 2002.

For a  discussion  of  risks we face due to our  international  operations,  see
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations - Factors That You Should Consider Before Investing in PMC-Sierra" in
Item 7.

Cisco Systems and  Hewlett-Packard  each  represented  more than 10% of our 2002
revenues based on total sales to end customers  through  distributors,  contract
manufacturers  or direct sales. Our sales outside of the United States accounted
for 45% of total revenue in 2002, 42% in 2001, and 38% in 2000.


MANUFACTURING

We are a fabless  company,  meaning we do not own or operate  foundries  for the
production of silicon wafers from which our products our made.  Instead,  we use
independent foundries and chip assemblers for the manufacture of our products.

Typically,  the  manufacture of our chips requires 12-16 weeks. We refer to this
as our lead-time.  Based on this lead-time, our team of production planners will
initiate a purchase order with an independent  foundry to fabricate the required
wafers.  The wafers once fabricated must be probed,  or inspected,  to determine
usable from  unusable chip parts,  referred to as die, on the wafer.  The wafers
are sent to an outside assembly house where they are cut and the good die are in
turn packaged into chips. The chips are then run through various  electrical and
visual tests before delivery to the customer. With most of our products, we have
the option to probe the wafers or test the final chips  in-house or  subcontract
the probing or testing to independent subcontractors.

We receive more than 90% of the silicon wafers from which we derive our products
from  Chartered   Semiconductor   Manufacturing   Ltd.   ("Chartered"),   Taiwan
Semiconductor  Manufacturing  Corporation  ("TSMC"),  and IBM. These independent
foundries produce our networking  products at feature sizes down to 0.13 micron.
By using  independent  foundries to fabricate our wafers,  we are better able to
concentrate our resources on designing, development and testing of new products.
In addition,  we avoid much of the fixed capital and operating costs  associated
with owning and operating fabrication or chip assembly facilities.

We have supply agreements with both Chartered and TSMC. We have made deposits to
secure access to wafer fabrication  capacity under both of these agreements.  At
December 31, 2002 and 2001, we had $22 million in deposits with these companies.
Under these agreements,  the foundries must supply certain  quantities of wafers
per year. Neither of these agreements have minimum unit volume  requirements but
we are obliged under one of the  agreements to purchase a minimum  percentage of
our  total  annual  wafer  requirements  provided  that the  foundry  is able to
continue to offer competitive  technology,  pricing,  quality and delivery.  The
agreements may be terminated if either party does not comply with the terms.

Wafers  supplied by outside  foundries  must meet our incoming  quality and test
standards.  We conduct a portion of our test operations on advanced mixed signal
and digital test equipment in our Burnaby facility. The remainder of our testing
is performed predominantly by independent U.S. and Asian companies.


                                       9
<PAGE>

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our  current  research  and  development  efforts are  targeted  at  integrating
multiple  channels  or  functions  on single  chips,  broadening  the  number of
products we provide to address varying protocols and networking  functions,  and
increasing the speeds at which our chips operate.

At the  end of  fiscal  2002,  we  had  design  centers  in  the  United  States
(California,  Oregon,  Maryland,  and  Pennsylvania),  Canada (British Columbia,
Saskatchewan,  Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec), Ireland, and India. On January 16,
2003,  we announced a corporate  restructuring  to further  reduce our operating
expenses.  As a result of this  restructuring,  we will be  closing  our  design
centers in Maryland, Ireland and India during 2003.

We spent $137.7  million in 2002,  $201.1 million in 2001, and $178.8 million in
2000 on research and development.

In 2000, we also expensed $38.2 million of in process  research and development,
$31.5 million of which related to the acquisition of Malleable  Technologies and
$6.7 million of which related to the acquisition of Datum Telegraphic.


BACKLOG

We sell primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders. Our customers frequently
revise the quantity  actually  purchased  and the shipment  schedules to reflect
changes in their needs.  We believe  orders placed for delivery in excess of six
months are not firm orders.  As of December  31,  2002,  our backlog of products
scheduled  for shipment  within six months  totaled  $36.6  million.  Unless our
customers  cancel or defer to a subsequent  year a portion of this  backlog,  we
expect this entire  backlog to be filled in 2003.  Our backlog of products as of
December 31, 2001 for shipment within six months totaled $35.7 million.

Our backlog includes backlog to our major  distributor,  which may not result in
revenue,  as we do not recognize  shipments to our major  distributor as revenue
until our distributor has sold our products  through to the end customer.  Also,
our customers may cancel, or defer to a future period, a significant  portion of
the backlog at their discretion  without penalty.  Accordingly,  we believe that
our backlog at any given time is not a meaningful indicator of future revenues.


COMPETITION

We typically face competition at the design stage when our networking  customers
determine  which  communications  semiconductor  components to use in their next
generation equipment designs.

Most of our  customers  choose a particular  semiconductor  component  primarily
based on whether the component:

   o        meets the functional requirements,

   o        addresses the required protocols,

   o        interfaces easily with other components in a design,

   o        meets power usage requirements, and

   o        is priced competitively.

                                       10
<PAGE>

OEMs are  becoming  more  price  conscious  than in the past as a result  of the
downturn in the telecommunications  industry, and as semiconductors sourced from
third party suppliers  comprise a greater portion of the total materials cost in
OEM  equipment.  We have also  experienced  aggressive  price  competition  from
competitors  that are seeking to enter into the markets in which we participate.
These  circumstances may make some of our products less competitive,  and we may
be forced to decrease our prices significantly to win a design.

In addition to price,  OEMs will also  consider the quality of the supplier when
determining  which component to include in a design.  Many of our customers will
consider  the  breadth  and  depth of the  supplier's  technology,  as using one
supplier for a broad range of technologies can often simplify and accelerate the
design of next generation equipment. OEMs will also consider a supplier's design
execution  reputation,  as many OEMs  design  their  next  generation  equipment
concurrently  with the  component  design.  As well,  consideration  is given to
whether the OEM has pre-qualified the supplier,  as this ensures that components
made by that supplier will meet the OEM's quality standards.

Our  competitors  may be classified  into three major groups.  First, we compete
against  established  peer-group  semiconductor  companies  that  focus  on  the
communications  semiconductor  business.  These companies include Agere Systems,
Applied  Micro  Circuits  Corporation,   Broadcom,  Exar  Corporation,  Conexant
Systems,  Marvell Technology Group,  Multilink Technology  Corporation,  Silicon
Image, Transwitch and Vitesse Semiconductor.  These companies are well financed,
have  significant   communications   semiconductor   technology   assets,   have
established sales channels, and depend on the market in which we participate for
the bulk of their revenues.

Other  competitors  include  major  domestic  and  international   semiconductor
companies,  such  as  Agilent,  Cypress  Semiconductor,  Intel,  IBM,  Infineon,
Integrated  Device  Technology,  Maxim  Integrated  Products,  Motorola,  Nortel
Networks and Texas Instruments.  These companies are concentrating an increasing
amount of their  substantial  financial  and other  resources  on the markets in
which we participate.

Emerging companies also provide  competition in our segment of the semiconductor
market. We are aware of venture-backed companies that focus on specific portions
of our broad range of products.  These companies  could  introduce  technologies
that may make one or more of our integrated circuits obsolete.

Over the next few years,  we expect  additional  competitors,  some of which may
also have greater  financial and other  resources,  to enter the market with new
products.

We are also  expanding  into some  markets,  such as the  storage  and  wireless
infrastructure  and  generic  microprocessor   markets,  that  have  established
incumbents  with  substantial  financial  and  other  resources.  Some of  these
incumbents  derive a majority of their earnings from these markets.  We expect a
strong increase in competition in these markets.


                                       11
<PAGE>

LICENSES, PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We rely in part on patents to protect our  intellectual  property  and have been
awarded  137  U.S.  and  63  foreign  patents  for  circuit  designs  and  other
innovations used in the design and architecture of our products. In addition, we
have 102 patent  applications  pending in the U.S. Patent and Trademark  office,
and 8  patent  applications  pending  in other  countries.  Our  patents  expire
typically  20 years  from the  patent  application  date if  accepted,  with our
existing patents expiring between 2010 and 2021.

We do not consider our business to be materially  dependent upon any one patent,
although  we believe  that a strong  portfolio  of patents  combined  with other
factors  such  as  our  innovative  ability,  technological  expertise  and  the
experience  of  our  personnel  are  important  to  compete  effectively  in the
industry.  A portfolio of patents also provides the  flexibility to negotiate or
cross  license  intellectual  property  with other  semiconductor  companies  to
incorporate other features in our products.

To protect  our other  intellectual  property  we rely on mask work  protection,
trademarks,   copyrights,   trade   secret  laws,   employee   and   third-party
nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements.

Our only material license is the MIPS microprocessor  architecture  license from
MIPS Technologies  Inc., on which our  microprocessor-based  products are based.
While the desktop  microprocessor market is dominated by the Intel Corporation's
"x86"  complex  instruction  set  computing,  or  CISC,  architecture,   several
microprocessor  architectures  have  emerged for other  microprocessor  markets.
Because of their higher performance and smaller space requirements,  most of the
competing architectures, like the MIPS architecture, are reduced instruction set
computing,  or RISC  architectures.  The MIPS  architecture is widely  supported
through   semiconductor   design  software,   operating  systems  and  companion
integrated  circuits.  Because  this  license  is the  architecture  behind  our
microprocessors,  we must be able to retain the MIPS license in order to produce
our follow-on microprocessor products.

PMC and its logo are our registered  trademarks and service marks.  We own other
trademarks  and service  marks not  appearing in this Annual  Report.  Any other
trademarks used in this Annual Report are owned by other entities.


EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2002, we had 1,099  employees,  including 679 in Research and
Development, 118 in Production and Quality Assurance, 203 in Marketing and Sales
and 99 in Administration. In January 2003, we announced a restructuring which we
expect  to  reduce  our  headcount  to 924  employees.  Our  employees  are  not
represented by a collective  bargaining  agreement and we have never experienced
any related work stoppage. We believe our employee relations are good.
