
ITEM 1.  Business.

GENERAL

PMC-Sierra,  Inc.  designs,  develops,  markets  and  supports  high-performance
semiconductor   networking  solutions.  Our  products  are  used  in  high-speed
transmission  and  networking  systems which are being used to  restructure  the
global telecommunications and data communications infrastructure.

PMC-Sierra   was   incorporated   in  the  State  of   California  in  1983  and
reincorporated  in the State of Delaware in 1997. Our Common Stock trades on the
Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "PMCS" and is included in the Nasdaq-100
index.

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  "PMC-Sierra",  "PMC", "the Company",  "us",
"our" or "we", includes PMC-Sierra, Inc. and all of our subsidiary companies.

This Annual  Report and the  portions  of our Proxy  Statement  incorporated  by
reference  into this  Annual  Report  contain  forward-looking  statements  that
involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as "anticipates", "believes",
"plans", "expects",  "future", "intends", "may", "will", "should",  "estimates",
"predicts",  "potential",  "continue"  and similar  expressions to identify such
forward-looking  statements.  These forward-looking  statements include, but are
not  limited to,  statements  under  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (including the "Outlook for 2001"
subsection within) and "Business".

Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties
and other  factors  that may  cause  our  actual  results,  levels of  activity,
performance,  achievements  and prospects to be materially  different from those
expressed  or  implied  by  such   forward-looking   statements.   These  risks,
uncertainties  and other factors include,  among others,  those identified under
"Factors that You Should Consider Before  Investing In PMC-Sierra" and elsewhere
in this Annual Report.

These  forward-looking  statements  apply  only as of the  date  of this  Annual
Report.   We  undertake  no  obligation   to  publicly   update  or  revise  any
forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result  of new  information,  future
events or otherwise.  In light of these risks,  uncertainties,  and assumptions,
the forward-looking  events discussed in this report might not occur. Our actual
results could differ materially from those anticipated in these  forward-looking
statements  for many  reasons,  including the risks we face as described in this
Annual  Report and readers are  cautioned  not to place undue  reliance on these
forward-looking  statements,  which reflect management's analysis only as of the
date hereof.  Such  forward-looking  statements  include statements as to, among
others:

*   our mergers and their accounting treatment;
*   revenues;
*   gross profit;
*   research and development expenses;
*   marketing, general and administrative expenditures; and
*   capital resources sufficiency.

This report  contains terms used within our industry that some investors may not
recognize.  We refer  investors to the glossary of terms  provided at the end of
this Item.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

Increasing  demand for Internet  bandwidth is straining  the global  information
infrastructure.  At home, individuals use the Internet for shopping, downloading
music and video files, working at home, checking investment  portfolios,  paying
bills and  communicating.  At work,  more and more companies are  "web-enabling"
their sales, budgeting,  production,  purchasing,  human resources,  and finance
applications.  Companies are conducting  on-line  meetings,  sharing data across
departments,  downloading  reports and sending in timesheets over networks.  The
demand  for these  applications,  and the  bandwidth  required  to  successfully
implement them, has resulted in an increased  interest for higher speed Internet
connections.

         The Bandwidth Suppliers

Two major  types of network  bandwidth  suppliers  are  trying to address  these
rapidly evolving networking demands: (a) incumbent telephone companies,  such as
AT&T, British Telecom, NTT, MCI Worldcom, Sprint and the Regional Bell Operating
Companies,  and (b) new data-centric  competitive carriers, such as Williams and
Level 3 at the  core  of the  Internet  infrastructure,  and  Competitive  Local
Exchange  Carriers,  or CLECs, such as Covad and Northpoint at the access points
of the Internet infrastructure.

Historically,  traditional  phone companies spent  significant  capital building
networks that supplied  reliable phone services to their customers.  As a result
of  the  deregulation  of the  telecommunications  industry,  traditional  phone
service  has  become  much more  competitive  and much less  profitable.  Hence,
established  carriers facing reduced  margins in their phone  businesses and new
carriers  are  expanding  their focus to include the higher  growth data market.
They will invest  billions of dollars to build new  networks  that will  address
public demand for massive data and voice capacity.

         Access to High Bandwidth Internet

One of the major factors behind the growth of the Internet infrastructure market
is demand by the end-user to transmit more  information at faster  speeds.  This
bandwidth  demand by  individuals,  organizations  and businesses  grows as more
sophisticated  and enhanced  user  applications  consumes  much of the available
access bandwidth.

For residential  Internet access, the more commonly used 56 kilobit analog modem
is a bottleneck.  Digital  Subscriber Line, or DSL,  technology uses traditional
phone lines connected to your home or office to provide substantially  increased
bandwidth for Internet access.  New DSL access  multiplexer  equipment is making
the broad deployment of DSLs possible by efficiently managing all of the network
traffic to and from customers using DSL services.  In areas where cable services
are available, cable modems are also providing residential customers with higher
bandwidth access methods to the Internet.

Many  businesses  are finding  that their ISDN or even T1 access  lines  provide
insufficient  bandwidth for the file sharing,  online  procurement,  production,
sales,  service  and other  management  applications  they use.  Some  CLECs are
deploying new DSL technologies  and higher bandwidth  connections for businesses
in an effort to meet these growing demands.

Equipment  manufacturers are supplying network equipment to bandwidth  suppliers
that enables more and higher bandwidth connections, often within the limitations
of traditional phone networking facilities and the power supply  infrastructure.
To be effective,  this networking  equipment must feature low power  consumption
per port  served,  as well as more ports  served per  equipment  line card.  PMC
develops lower power and higher port density  networking  products,  such as the
TEMUX-84, to address the requirements of these equipment manufacturers.

         Wireless Infrastructure

Some of the major  catalysts  driving the  expansion of wireless  infrastructure
are: the accelerated  growth of mobile phone usage,  increased call duration and
call frequency, and new third generation licenses.

Many  carriers  are  upgrading  their  existing  wireless   infrastructures   to
facilitate the change from  session-oriented,  voice conversations to data-rich,
continuous connections with the Internet.  Emerging next-generation personal web
companions will integrate  features such as voice service,  text messaging,  web
content,  enterprise data, and global positioning.  Users are demanding wireless
handsets  and  personal  digital  assistants  that  are  "always  on" for use as
Internet access devices.

Carriers are  deploying  base  transceiver  stations to connect  these  wireless
services to the Internet.  These base stations  convert  wireless  communication
traffic into wired  networks.  The wired  networks  then  aggregate,  switch and
process the signals at primarily T1 or E1 rates.

         All IP/Ethernet Networks

Today, many incumbent carriers supplement their existing network  infrastructure
with new  "multi-service"  Frame Relay and  Asynchronous  Transfer Mode, or ATM,
networks  that  support  data,  voice and  other  communication  traffic.  These
carriers use Quality of Service, or QoS, management  techniques to differentiate
service and pricing for different  types of  communication  traffic carried over
their networks.

To date, purely Internet  Protocol,  or IP, and Ethernet based networks have not
been able to provide  carriers  with the  management  and  control  required  to
provide different  quality levels for different types of traffic.  For instance,
purely IP or Ethernet  networks may have  difficulty  differentiating  between a
voice signal or an email, or may cause unwanted pauses or delays during a normal
telephone conversation.

As networks  transport  significantly  more data than any other type of traffic,
many carriers  believe the next  generation of  communications  networks will be
IP-based.  Some of these  carriers are  deploying  large  networks  that support
traffic on purely IP or Ethernet  transmissions.  For example,  many ISPs deploy
multiple  high-capacity routers that have Ethernet interconnects and communicate
with WAN optical transport equipment using IP-over-Sonet/SDH.  PMC is developing
networking  products such as the S/UNI 2xGE and the S/UNI-2488  that support our
customers'  increased  demand  for  WAN  compliant  Ethernet  and  IP-over-Sonet
applications.

     Optics Deployment to Handle High Volume Traffic

The emergence of the Optical Transport Network, or OTN, - a network based on the
transmission of light,  rather than electrical  signals - is one of the greatest
evolutions in the broadband  networking  arena. In 2000,  carriers  continued to
deploy  and  light  thousands  of miles of fiber  optic  cable  underground  and
alongside railway lines or petroleum pipelines.  These deployments have provided
increased  communications capacity throughout the core of the Wide Area Network,
or WAN.

The emergence of the OTN has resulted in an optical/electrical convergence where
optical functions mesh with electrically managed functions. In today's networks,
optical wavelengths  transport traffic while electrical  semiconductors are used
to  manage  traffic.   PMC  offers  networking   products  that  merge  existing
electrical-based  communications  protocols,  such  as  ATM,  SONET/SDH,  IP and
Gigabit Ethernet, with new optical-based protocols.

As a more attractive investment for long distance  transmissions,  many carriers
consider the massive bandwidth  capacity provided by fiber optics and Dense Wave
Division Multiplexing,  or DWDM, which is a method of using color wavelengths to
create a new network "line" for every color.  Today,  more and more carriers are
deploying  lower cost DWDM systems  throughout  Metropolitan  Area Networks,  or
MANs,  and  networks  on the  "edge" of the WAN to manage  the large  volumes of
bandwidth  driven by increased DSL, Cable,  Frame Relay and other network access
technologies.

The MANs and edge  networks  being  deployed  by  carriers  have high  bandwidth
capacities (such as OC-3, OC-12 and OC-48) that  traditionally have been used in
Core or Transport  parts of the WAN. Core  networks,  however,  are migrating to
higher  OC-48  and  OC-192   speeds,   and  using   primarily   large   capacity
"concatenated"  signals, which are signals that do not have individually managed
channels  within them. MANs and Edge networks must look inside the high capacity
signals to aggregate,  filter, manage and disaggregate individual communications
channels.

This need for  granularity or channelized  management  presents a variety of new
challenges  for  networking  equipment  manufacturers  and their  customers.  In
addition,  our customers  require high density and lower power  solutions due to
the real estate and power supply limitations in the densely populated  locations
where the Metro and Edge  equipment is deployed.  PMC introduced the SPECTRA and
CHESS  (Channelized  Engine for  Sonet/SDH)  set of networking  products,  among
others, to directly address our customers concerns in these areas.

         The Shift from ASIC to ASSP

As  the  networking   equipment   markets  become  more   competitive,   and  as
technological  advances  accelerate,  our customers continue to look for ways to
reduce  development  risk, reduce research and development costs and shorten the
time it takes  to  bring  their  products  to  market.  In the  past,  equipment
manufacturers looked for off-the-shelf Application Specific Standard Product, or
ASSP,  solutions to solve their  immediate  design needs before  undertaking the
risky  and  often  resource  inefficient  task of  designing  their  own  custom
Application  Specific Integrated Circuit, or ASIC. If our customers applied ASSP
solutions to their technology challenges, they were often able to allocate their
valuable and scarce design  resources to functions  that were  unavailable  from
standard product suppliers and would help differentiate their product.

Traditionally,  the ASSPs  demanded by customers  were fixed  function  standard
PHYs. In recent years,  equipment  manufacturers  have been demanding ASSPs that
perform additional networking equipment functions.  Some equipment manufacturers
are  demanding  the  additional  flexibility  derived  from ASSP  microprocessor
products  along with ASSPs which  perform  traffic  management,  processing  and
switching.

OUR STRATEGY

Our overall  strategy is to provide our customers with networking  semiconductor
solutions that address a broad range of products and applications.  Our approach
is as follows:

*   Address a number of classes of networking equipment;
*   Provide a selection of specialized products within each networking function;
*   Provide a selection of products that address multiple networking functions;
    and
*   Develop or acquire  new  technologies  and  products  in  anticipation  of
    our customers' needs.

         Classes of Equipment Served

The  internet  infrastructure  is  comprised  of a complex  structure  of linked
networks,  many of which are owned by separate organizations and follow a unique
approach to manage and transmit networking traffic. These networks are made more
complex by the variety of equipment used in the networks, each of which performs
a separate  function.  In addition,  there may be a number of manufacturers that
design and market  numerous  types of  networking  equipment.  We have a diverse
customer base comprised of large  customers that produce a variety of networking
equipment  products and some small  customers that provide one or two networking
equipment products.

Our  strategy  is to  provide  products  that  adhere  to the  major  networking
standards and perform the most common networking  functions required by the most
widely  deployed  types of  Internet  infrastructure  equipment.  Our goal is to
provide  products that can be used in the majority of the  applications  used to
build the Internet.

Thus, we design our products for a wide variety of networking  equipment  types,
including:

WAN Access Equipment                    WAN Transmission and Switching Equipment

*    Remote Access Equipment            *    WAN Edge Switches
*    Frame Relay Access Devices         *    Routers
*    Wireless Basestations              *    WAN Core Switches
*    Digital Loop Carriers              *    Digital Cross Connects
*    Frame Relay Switches               *    Add-Drop Multiplexers
*    Internet Access Concentrators      *    Terminal Multiplexers
*    Digital Subscriber Line Access
     Multiplexers (DSLAMs)

LAN equipment

*    Switches/Routers
*    Network Interface Cards
*    Network Appliances

         Provide a Broad Range of Products

We provide our customers  with a variety of products from which to choose.  This
allows them to select the equipment  design that is appropriate  for the segment
of the equipment  market they are  attempting to address.  We sell products that
vary  within  certain  functions,  such as our  line  of  S/UNI  physical  layer
products,  and we sell  products  that vary  across  functions.  This is further
discussed below.

The following is a summary of some of our more  significant  products  currently
available.



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                      Table I - PMC-Sierra Product Summary
                      ------------------------------------


                                                                                                       Function
                                                                               -----------------------------------------------------
                                                         Through-               LIU /                                   Traf-
                                                         put/Clock     Granu-   PHY /      Tributary  Cell/Packet Back-  fic
No.Product                       Description               Rate        larity  Framer  SAR Processor   Processor  plane  Mgr Switch
---------                        -----------             ---------     ------  ------  --- ---------  ----------- ----- ---- ------
  <S>                                <C>                    <C>          <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>         <C>      <C>   <C>   <C>


 1 T1XC             1-port framer + LIU                     T1           -       x
 2 E1XC             1-port framer + LIU                     E1           -       x
 3 QDSX             4-port short haul analog LIU           T1/E1         -       x
 4 COMET            1-port framer + long haul LIU          T1/E1         -       x
 5 COMET-QUAD       4-port framer + long haul LIU          T1/E1         -       x
 6 TQUAD            4-port framer                           T1           -       x
 7 EQUAD            4-port framer                           E1           -       x
 8 TOCTL            8-port framer                           T1           -       x
 9 EOCTL            8-port framer                           E1           -       x
10 D3MX             M13 Multiplexer/Demultiplexer           T3           -       x
11 TEMUX            28T/21E framer, Sonet mapper
                    & M13 Mux                          T1/E1 - T3/E3     -       x
12 TEMUX-84         84T/63E framer, Sonet mapper
                    & 3xM13 Muxes                      T1/E1 - T3/E3     -       x
13 S/UNI-IMA-8      8 link inverse multiplexer
                    for ATM/UNI PHY                        T1/E1         -       x
14 S/UNI-IMA-32     32 link inverse multiplexer
                    for ATM/UNI PHY                        T1/E1         -       x
15 S/UNI-IMA-84     84 link inverse multiplexer
                    for ATM/UNI PHY                        T1/E1         -       x
16 S/UNI-MPH        Quad T1/E1 ATM Interface               T1/E1         -       x
17 S/UNI-PDH        T1/E1/T3/E3  + ATM                 T1/E1 - T3/E3     -       x
18 S/UNI JET        1-port framer or ATM UNI           T1/E1/J2 - T3/E3  -       x
19 S/UNI QJET       4-port framer or ATM UNI           T1/E1/J2 - T3/E3  -       x
20 S/UNI-4xD3F      4-port J2, E3 and DS-3 Framer        T3/E3/J2        -       x
21 S/UNI-CDB        4 channel cell delineation block      52mb/s         -       x
22 S/UNI-155        1-port PHY                              OC3          -       x
23 S/UNI-155-LITE   1-port PHY + analog CRU/CSU             OC3          -       x
24 S/UNI-PLUS       enhanced 1-port PHY + analog
                    CRU/CSU                                 OC3          -       x
25 S/UNI-155-ULTRA  1-port PHY + UTP-5 + analog
                    CRU/CSU                                 OC3          -       x
26 S/UNI-155-DUAL   2-port PHY + analog CRU/CSU             OC3          -       x
27 S/UNI-QUAD       4-port PHY + analog CRU/CSU             OC3          -       x
28 S/UNI-16x155     16-port PHY + analog CRU/CSU            OC3          -       x
29 LASAR-155        ATM PHY & AAL5 SAR                      OC3          -       x      x
30 S/UNI STAR       1-port SONET/SDH framer                 OC3          -       x
31 S/UNI TETRA      4-port ATM + POS PHY + analog
                    CRU/CSU                                 OC3          -       x
32 S/UNI 622        1-port PHY                             OC12          -       x
33 S/UNI-622 MAX    1-port PHY + analog CRU/CSU            OC12          -       x
34 S/UNI-4x622      4-port PHY + analog CRU/CSU            OC12          -       x
35 S/UNI-2488       1-port PHY + analog CRU/CSU            OC48          -       x
36 S/UNI-2xGE       2-port SERDES & Gigabit MAC         2 x 1 Gbps       -       x
37 S/UNI-622-POS    1-port ATM + POS PHY + analog
                    CRU/CSU                                OC12          -       x
38 TEMAP            VT/TU Mapper and M13 Multiplexer       STS-1         -              x
39 SPTX             Path Terminating Tranceiver             OC3        STS-1     x
40 STXC             Transport Overhead Terminator           OC3          -       x
41 STTX             Transport Overhead Terminator          OC12          -       x
42 SPECTRA-155      Payload Extractor/Aligner               OC3        STS-1     x
43 SPECTRA-4x155    4-port Payload Extractor/Aligner
                    (Chess)                                 OC3        STS-1     x
44 SPECTRA-622      Payload Extractor/Aligner              OC12        STS-1     x
45 SPECTRA-2488     Payload Extractor/Aligner
                    (Chess)                                OC48        STS-1     x
46 S/UNI-MACH 48    48-channel POS/ATM Cell
                    Processor/Mapper (Chess)               OC48        STS-1     x
47 QUAD-PHY         4-port SERDES                         5 Gbps         -       x
48 OCTAL-PHY        8-port SERDES                         10 Gbps        -       x
49 AAL1gatorII      AAL1 SAR Processor                     T3/E3        DS0             x
50 AAL1gator-4      4-channel AAL1 SAR                     T3/E3        DS0             x
51 AAL1gator-8      8-channel AAL1 SAR                     T3/E3        DS0             x
52 AAL1gator-32     32-channel AAL1 SAR                    T3/E3        DS0             x
53 TUPP             VT/TU Payload Alignor/Processor         OC3          T1                     x
54 TUPP-PLUS        TUPP + Performance Monitor              OC3          T1                     x
55 TUPP-PLUS 622    TUPP + Performance Monitor              OC12         T1                     x
56 TUDX             VT/TU X-Connect Switch                2 x OC3        T1                     x
57 PALADIN-10       DSP for Amplification Correction        n/a         n/a                                x
58 FREEDM-32P32     32 link, 32 ch. HDLC Controller       2 x T3        DS0                                x
59 FREEDM-8         8 link, 128 ch. HDLC Controller       2 x T3        DS0                                x
60 FREEDM-32        32 link, 128 ch. HDLC Controller      2 x T3        DS0                                x
61 FREEDM-32P672    32 link, 672 ch. HDLC Controller        OC3         DS0                                x
62 FREEDM-32A672    32 link, 672 ch. HDLC Controller
                    w' "Any-PHY"                            OC3         DS0                                x
63 FREEDM-84P672    84 link, 672 ch. HDLC Controller        OC3         DS0                                x
64 FREEDM-84A672    84 link, 672 ch. HDLC Controller
                    w' "Any-PHY"                            OC3         DS0                                x
65 MECA-4A          Multi-Channel Voice over ATM DSP        n/a         n/a                                x
66 MECA-4I          Multi-Channel Voice over IP DSP         n/a         n/a                                x
67 RCMP-200         Routing Control, Monitoring &
                    Policing                                OC3        Cell                                x
68 RCMP-800         Routing Control, Monitoring &
                    Policing                                OC12       Cell                                x
69 S/UNI-ATLAS      Full Duplex RCMP + additional
                    features                                OC12       Cell                                x
70 S/UNI-ATLAS-3200 Full Duplex RCMP + additional
                    features                                OC48       Cell                                x
71 RM5231A          64-bit MIPS RISC Microprocessor         n/a           -                                x
72 RM5261A          64-bit MIPS RISC Microprocessor         n/a           -                                x
73 RM7000A          64-bit MIPS RISC Microprocessor
                    with L2 Cache                                                                          x
74 QRT              ATM Quad Routing Table                  OC12       Cell                                                x
75 QSE              ATM Quad Switching Element             5 Gbps      Cell                                                      x
76 TBS              Telecom Bus Serializer (Chess)          OC48      STS-1                                          x
77 TSE              Transmission Switching Element
                    (Chess)                                40Gbps     STS-1                                                      x
78 S/UNI DUPLEX     Dual Serial Link PHY Multiplexer
                    (Vortex)                                OC3           -      x                                   x           x
79 S/UNI VORTEX     Octal Serial Link PHY Multiplexer
                    (Vortex)                                OC12          -      x                                   x           x
80 S/UNI APEX       ATM/Packet Traffic Mgr. & Switch
                    (Vortex)                                OC12          -                                x               x     x
81 PM9311           TT1 Scheduler                           C192/
                                                         320 Gbps     OC 48
82 PM9312           TT1 Cross Bar
                                                                                                                                 x
83 PM9313           TT1 Data Slice
84 PM9315           TT1 Enhanced Port Processor
85 EXACT - PM3370   8x100 port controller                 100 Mbps        -                                x                     x
86 EXACT - PM3380   1x1000 port controller                  1 Gbps        -                                x                     x
87 EXACT - PM3390   8 to 16 port EXACT Switch Matrix        8 Gbps        -                                x                     x

</TABLE>




This table is intended only to provide a general  understanding of our products.
Our chips may not  perform  all the  possible  features  related  to a  specific
function.  For example,  we have a number of single port OC-3 ATM physical layer
products  that perform  different  functions  within the  physical  layer of the
networking hierarchy and are generally used in different applications.

         Our Strategy Includes Addressing More Networking Functions

While we provide our customers with single function products,  such as our S/UNI
products,  in a variety of formats,  we also  develop  products  that  address a
variety of networking functions.  The following product map provides examples of
how our products  address our customers'  needs based on target equipment market
(access, edge, core) and functionality (PHY/Framer, Layer 2+, traffic management
and switch fabrics):

                       Table II - Product Function Table

                     ------------------- ------------------- -------------------
                            ACCESS               EDGE              CORE
                     ------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Switch Fabrics and
Traffic Management   S/UNI-APEX,         S/UNI-APEX          TT1
                     S/UNI-VORTEX,
                     S/UNI- DUPLEX
                     ................... ................... ...................
Layer 2+             MECA, FREEDM,       CLASSIPI,
                     S/UNI-ATLAS,        S/UNI-ATLAS,        CHESS-2488,
                     AAL1gator, PALADIN  AAL1gator           S/UNI-ATLAS-2500
                     ................... ................... ...................
PHY/FRAMER           COMET, TEMUX        SPECTRA,            S/UNI-2488
                                         S/UNI 155/622
                     -----------------------------------------------------------
                                        MIPS MICROPROCESSORS
                     -----------------------------------------------------------

By providing architectural  solutions, our goal is to provide our customers with
solutions  that enable them to bring  their next  generation  products to market
faster.

         We Develop and Acquire  New  Technologies  to Address the Needs of Next
         Generation Networks

While  some  of  the  next  generation   products  we  introduce  are  based  on
technologies we develop ourselves, we intend to fill some of our technology gaps
through acquisitions.  The following is a table that summarizes the acquisitions
where we acquired technology in the three years ended December 31, 2000.

                         Table III - Acquisition Summary

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Acquired Company              Date Acquired     Technology Acquired
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Integrated Telecom Technology, Inc.        May 1998  SARs, Traffic Management
                                                      and Switch Fabrics
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Abrizio, Inc.                        September 1999  High Capacity/Protocol
                                                      Agnostic Switch Fabrics
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Toucan Technology Ltd.                 January 2000  Digital Signal
                                                      Processing (DSP)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 AANetcom, Inc.                           March 2000  High Speed Serial/
                                                      Deserialisers
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Extreme Packet Devices Inc.              April 2000  Traffic Management
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Malleable Technologies, Inc.              June 2000  Voice-over-IP/ATM DSPs
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Datum Telegraphic Inc.                    July 2000  Power Linearization DSPs
                                                      for Wireless Basestations
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Quantum Effect Devices, Inc.            August 2000  MIPS Microprocessors
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SwitchOn Networks, Inc.              September 2000  Layer 3-7 Classification
                                                      DSPs
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some of the technologies we acquired not only addressed  different  functions in
our  customers'   equipment,   but  also  provided  us  with  new  semiconductor
technologies  that  our  customers  demand.   For  instance,   we  acquired  DSP
technologies  through  the  acquisitions  of Toucan,  Malleable  and Datum,  and
microprocessor technology through the acquisition of Quantum Effect Devices.

         New Networking Product Development

In 2000,  we  introduced  the S/UNI  16x155,  S/UNI 4x622 and S/UNI 2488.  These
represent  our  next  generation  of ATM and  Packet-over-Sonet  physical  layer
products  that  traffic  at OC-48  line  rates on next  generation  routers  and
multi-service switches.

We introduced the CHESS chip set in 2000 to address the  challenging  networking
task of managing  channelized  signals.  Channelized  signals  carry a number of
smaller  channels  on one high speed  signal.  The CHESS chip set  includes  the
Spectra 2488,  Spectra 4x155, TBS, TSE and S/UNI MACH 48. These products provide
framing, channelizing, serializing, traffic grooming, and mapping in channelized
OC-48 streams. With the CHESS chip set, we provide our customers with a range of
products  which can help them  build new  classes  of  digital  cross  connects,
add-drop multiplexers and switches.

We introduced the S/UNI Atlas 3200, which performs address  resolution,  traffic
policing,  fault and performance management and statistics gathering channelized
and  unchannelized  communication  streams  at OC-48.  The S/UNI  Atlas  3200 is
targeted at multi-service core, edge, access and metro-optical equipment.

We began  sampling our S/UNI 2xGE in 2000 to support our  customers'  efforts to
handle IP traffic in their core and edge  routers,  multi-service  platforms and
point-of-presence  equipment.  The  S/UNI  2xGE is a  physical  layer  dual port
gigabit ethernet transceiver with integrated media access controllers.

We announced three new members of our AAL1gator  family of ATM adaptation  layer
processors. These chips allow our customers to develop equipment that aggregates
multiple lines of voice and other traffic onto an ATM network.

We introduced the S/UNI STAR, S/UNI CDB and S/UNI 4xD3F.  These products provide
flexible  physical layer  solutions to our customers for use in next  generation
multi-service  equipment,   customer  premise  equipment  routers  and  wireless
basestations.

In 2000,  we also  introduced a variety of next  generation  products for use in
lower speed traffic  aggregation  and  management  equipment  applications.  The
TEMUX-84 is a next generation T1/E1 product that combines 84 ports of T1 framing
or 63 ports of E1 framing with three DS-3 multiplexers. This product, along with
our other physical layer access products,  addresses key market concerns of high
port density,  low power  consumption and small packaging.  Also in keeping with
these needs,  we introduced the COMET QUAD, the four-port next generation of our
COMET product line.

We introduced  the  PALADIN-10,  a DSP chip that improves the  effectiveness  of
wireless  base-station  amplifiers by reducing power  consumption by eliminating
transmitter  distortions  and spectral  inefficiencies.  We also  introduced the
MECA-4I and MECA-4A, a family of voice-over-IP or voice-over-ATM DSP chips which
convert voice signals into IP packets or ATM cells for transport  over IP or ATM
networks.

We also  introduced our next  generation  MIPS based  microprocessor  called the
RM7000A.  The  RM7000A  is  designed  for  software-intensive   data  networking
applications.

Finally, we introduced the Tiny Tera One, or TTI, chip set and switch fabric for
high bandwidth switching applications. The TT1 chip set enables scalable terabit
routers,  ATM switches and optical switches to provide aggregate bandwidth of up
to 320 gigabits per second.  The TT1 chip set uses an  architecture  that allows
for the multiple rack system implementations required to deal with the power and
mechanical demands of these high performance systems.

OUR NON-NETWORKING PRODUCTS

In the third  quarter of 1996,  we announced our decision to exit the modem chip
set business and discontinue  development of our custom chip sets. Our remaining
non-networking  products  are  still  being  sold  but we are not  planning  new
development or follow-on products. Most of our remaining  non-networking revenue
is  generated  by one custom  semiconductor  that is used in a  portable  health
monitoring device.

Revenues from other  non-networking  products  declined rapidly in 1998 and 1999
and increased in 2000. We expect that our primary non-networking customer's next
generation  health monitoring device will be released in 2001. This product does
not incorporate any of our  semiconductors in its design. As a result, we expect
revenue from non-networking products to decline rapidly in 2001 and end in 2002.

SEGMENT PERFORMANCE

We evaluate performance based on gross profits from operations of our networking
and non-networking  segments.  Summarized financial information by segment is as
follows:

                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                     -------------------------------------------

(in thousands)                           2000            1999            1998
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net revenues

 Networking                           $  665,700      $  278,477      $  152,015
 Non-networking                           28,984          17,291          22,273
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                 $  694,684      $  295,768      $  174,288
                                     ===========================================


Gross profit

 Networking                           $  515,712      $  214,401      $  118,469
 Non-networking                           12,811           7,928          10,529
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                 $  528,523      $  222,329      $  128,998
                                     ===========================================

SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

Our sales and marketing strategy is to be designed into our customers' equipment
by developing and selling  superior  products for which we will provide  premium
service and technical support. We maintain close working  relationships with our
customers  in order to make  products  that  address  their  needs.  We  provide
technical support to customers through field  application  engineers,  technical
marketing and factory systems engineers. We believe that providing comprehensive
product service and support is critical to shortening  customers'  design cycles
and maintaining a competitive position in the networking market.

We  sell  our   products   directly   and  through   distributors,   independent
manufacturers'  representatives and manufacturing  subcontractors.  Based on end
users and ignoring sales to distributors or sub-contractors, Lucent Technologies
and Cisco Systems each  represented  greater than 10% of our 2000  revenues.  In
2000, the country  purchasing the largest  percentage of our products outside of
the United States was Canada at 12%. Our  international  sales accounted for 38%
of total revenue in 2000, 30% in 1999 and 32% in 1998.

MANUFACTURING

Independent  foundries and chip assemblers  manufacture all of our products.  We
receive  most of the  silicon  wafers  with  which we derive our  products  from
Chartered Semiconductor  Manufacturing Ltd. ("Chartered"),  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing  Corporation  ("TSMC"),  LSI  Logic  Corporation  and  IBM.  These
independent  foundries produce our networking  products at feature sizes down to
0.18 micron.  We believe that by using  independent  foundries to fabricate  our
wafers, we are better able to concentrate our resources on designing and testing
new products.  In addition,  we avoid much of the capital cost  associated  with
owning and operating a fabrication facility.

We have supply  agreements  with  Chartered  and TSMC.  We have made deposits to
secure access to wafer fabrication  capacity under both of these agreements.  At
December 31, 2000 and 1999,  we had $23.0 and $19.1  million,  respectively,  in
deposits with the foundries.  Under these agreements,  the foundries must supply
certain  quantities of wafers per year. Neither of these agreements have minimum
unit volume  requirements  but we are  obliged  under one of the  agreements  to
purchase a minimum  percentage of our total annual wafer  requirements  provided
that the foundry is able to continue to offer competitive  technology,  pricing,
quality and delivery.  The agreements may be terminated if either party does not
comply with the terms.

Wafers  supplied by outside  foundries  must meet our incoming  quality and test
standards.  We conduct the  majority of our test  operations  on advanced  mixed
signal  and  digital  test  equipment  in our  Burnaby,  Canada,  facility.  The
remainder of our testing is performed  predominantly by independent US and Asian
companies.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our  current  research  and  development  efforts are  targeted  at  integrating
multiple  channels  or  functions  on single  chips,  broadening  the  number of
products we provide to address varying protocols and networking  functions,  and
increasing the speeds at which our chips operate.

We have design centers in or near  Gaithersburg  (Maryland),  Galway  (Ireland),
Dublin (Ireland),  Montreal (Canada),  Portland (Oregon),  Ottawa (Canada), Pune
(India), San Jose (California),  Saskatoon (Canada), Toronto (Canada), Vancouver
(Canada) and Winnipeg (Canada).

We spent $178.8  million in 2000,  $83.7  million in 1999,  and $50.9 million in
1998 on research and development.  In 2000, we also expensed $38.2 million of in
process  research  and  development,  $31.5  million  of  which  related  to the
acquisition of Malleable  Technologies  and $6.7 million of which related to the
acquisition of Datum Telegraphic.

In 1998, we also expensed $39.2 million of in process  research and development,
$37.8  million  of  which  related  to the  acquisition  of  Integrated  Telecom
Technologies  and $1.4  million  of which  related to the  acquisition  of other
technology.

BACKLOG

We sell primarily pursuant to standard short-term purchase orders. Our customers
frequently revise the quantity actually  purchased and the shipment schedules to
reflect changes in their needs. As of December 31, 2000, our backlog of products
scheduled for shipment within six months totaled $216.0 million.  As of December
31,  1999,  our backlog of products  scheduled  for  shipment  within six months
totaled $165.3 million.  Our backlog includes backlog to our major  distributor,
which may not  result  in  revenues  as we do not  recognize  revenue  until our
distributor  has  sold our  products  through  to the end  customer.  Also,  our
customers  may cancel a significant  portion of the backlog at their  discretion
without penalty.  Accordingly,  we believe that our backlog at any given time is
not a meaningful indicator of future revenues.

During  December 2000 and into the first quarter of 2001,  many of our customers
experienced  decreased  demand,  order  cancellations or  postponements  and had
accumulated significant inventories of our networking products. See "Outlook for
2001" in  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations".

COMPETITION

Our competitors include Applied Micro Circuits Corporation,  Broadcom,  Conexant
Systems,   Cypress  Semiconductor,   Dallas  Semiconductor,   Exar  Corporation,
Integrated  Device  Technology,   IBM,  Infineon,   Intel,  Lucent  Technologies
(including Agere),  Marvell  Technology Group,  Motorola,  Multilink  Technology
Corporation,   Nortel  Networks,  Texas  Instruments,   Transwitch  and  Vitesse
Semiconductor.  Over the next few years, we expect additional competitors,  some
of which may also have  greater  financial  and  other  resources,  to enter the
market with new products. In addition, we are aware of venture-backed  companies
that focus on specific portions of our broad range of products. These companies,
individually or collectively, could represent future competition for many design
wins, and subsequent product sales.

The markets for our  products  are  intensely  competitive  and subject to rapid
technological  advancement  in design  tools,  wafer  manufacturing  techniques,
process  tools and  alternate  networking  technologies.  We must  identify  and
capture  future  market  opportunities  to offset the rapid price  erosion  that
characterizes  our  industry.  We may not be able to  develop  new  products  at
competitive pricing and performance levels. Even if we are able to do so, we may
not complete a new product and  introduce it to market in a timely  manner.  Our
customers may substitute use of our products in their next generation  equipment
with those of current or future competitors.

We typically face  competition  at the design stage,  where  customers  evaluate
alternative design approaches that require integrated circuits.  Our competitors
have  increasingly  frequent  opportunities  to  supplant  our  products in next
generation  systems  because of shortened  product life and design-in  cycles in
many of our customers' products.

We are expanding  into some  markets,  such as the wireless  infrastructure  and
generic  microprocessor  markets,  that have  established  incumbents  that have
substantial  financial and other resources.  Some of these  incumbents  derive a
majority of their earnings from these markets.  We expect fiercer competition in
these markets.

In addition, major domestic and international  semiconductor companies,  such as
Intel, IBM, and Lucent  Technologies,  are concentrating an increasing amount of
their  substantially  greater  financial  and other  resources on the markets in
which we  participate.  This  represents  a serious  competitive  threat to PMC.
Emerging  companies also provide  significant  competition in our segment of the
semiconductor  market,  while our  peers are  becoming  mature,  successful  and
sophisticated.

Competition  is  particularly  strong in the market for optical  networking  and
optical  telecommunication chips, in part due to the market's growth rate, which
attracts larger competitors,  and in part due to the number of smaller companies
focused on this area. These companies,  individually or collectively,  represent
strong  competition for many design wins, and subsequent  product sales.  Larger
competitors in our market have recently  acquired or announced  plans to acquire
both publicly  traded and privately held  companies with advanced  technologies.
These acquisitions could enhance the ability of larger competitors to obtain new
business that PMC might have otherwise won.

LICENSES, PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We have several U.S. patents and a number of pending patent  applications in the
U.S.  and  Europe.  In  addition to such  factors as  innovation,  technological
expertise and experienced personnel, we believe that a strong patent position is
becoming  increasingly  important to compete  effectively  in the  industry.  We
therefore have an active program to acquire additional patent protection.

We apply for mask work  protection  on our circuit  designs.  We also attempt to
protect our software,  trade secrets and other proprietary information by, among
other security measures,  entering into proprietary  information agreements with
employees.  Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously,  we do not know
if the measures we use will be successful.

PMC and its logo are our registered  trademarks and service marks.  We own other
trademarks  and service  marks not  appearing in this Annual  Report.  Any other
trademarks used in this Annual Report are owned by other entities.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2000, we had 1,726  employees,  including 1,083 in Research &
Development, 207 in Production and Quality Assurance, 245 in Marketing and Sales
and 191 in  Administration.  Our employees are not  represented  by a collective
bargaining  agreement.  We have never experienced any work stoppage.  We believe
our employee relations are good.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

We use a number of terms in this Annual  Report  which are  familiar to industry
participants  but which some  investors  may not  recognize.  We have provided a
glossary of some of these terms below.

ATM: Asynchronous Transfer Mode - a high speed switching technology used in both
LAN and WAN  applications.  ATM packages  information  in a fixed size (53 byte)
cell format. ATM transmission rates can scale from 25 megabits per second (Mbps)
to 40 gigabits per second (Gbps). An "ATM Network" is a network based on the ATM
protocol.

Bandwidth:  Commonly defined as the volume of data that a transmission  line can
carry,  measured in bits per second.  Traditional  copper  lines have the lowest
bandwidth potential, while fiber optic lines have the highest.

Constant Bit Rate (CBR): A type of traffic that requires a continuous,  specific
amount of bandwidth  over the ATM network.  This is typically  required for high
quality video and digital voice transmission.

Dense Wavelength  Division  Multiplexing  (DWDM): An extension of WDM technology
that allows simultaneous transmission of multiple channels on a single fiber.

Digital  Cross  Connect:  An  electronic  switching  system that routes  digital
signals among multiple paths without demultiplexing them.

Digital Subscriber Line: A public network access technology that allows multiple
forms of high bandwidth data,  voice, and video to be carried over  twisted-pair
copper wire between a network service provider's central office and the customer
site.

Digital Signal Processor (DSP): A specialized  computer chip designed to perform
a variety of possible  complex  operations  digitally rather than by traditional
analog  methods.  DSPs are useful in processing  sound (like voice phone calls),
graphics or video.  For  example,  some DSPs are used in  compressing  real-time
video signals before they are sent on a  communications  pipe to help reduce the
amount of bandwidth used by the signals.

Ethernet:  A standard  protocol that encompasses both layer 1 (the  transmission
and  reception  of  bits)  and  layer  2 (the  packaging  of data  into  frames)
functions.

Frame Relay: A  packet-switching  technology used to route frames of information
within a WAN. Instead of leasing dedicated lines between all remote sites, frame
relay allows  virtual  private  networks to be established in which remote sites
are connected to a central carrier, which routes data accordingly.

Gigabit:  One billion bits.

HDLC:   High-level  Data  Link  Control  -  A  transmission  protocol  in  which
information  that  allows  devices to control  data flow and  correct  errors is
embedded in a data frame. Typically used for frame relay services.

Internet  Protocol (IP): A routing  protocol  standard that is used to transport
traffic over the  Internet.  IP  implements  the network  layer (Layer 3) of the
TCP/IP protocol, which contains a network address and is used to route a message
to a different network or subnetwork.

ISDN: A  traditional  communications  line that allows users to transmit data at
128 Kbps over copper cable.

LAN:  Local Area Network - A shared network of computers that spans a relatively
small area, usually confined to a single or cluster of buildings.

MAN:  Metropolitan  Area  Network  - A  communications  network  that  covers  a
geographic area, such as a city or suburb, or a series of LANs at multiple sites
often interconnected by public facilities.  "Edge" networks are similar to MANs,
but generally relate to equipment that acts as a bridge onto an ATM network.

Megabit: One million bits.

MIPS Microprocessor: Microprocessors based on reduced instruction set computing,
or RISC  architectures;  these devices can perform  computations and control the
flow  of  information  in  networking/communications  infrastructure  equipment,
business network equipment and consumer network products.

Multiplexing:  An electronic or optical  process that combines a large number of
low-speed  transmission  lines into one  high-speed  line by splitting the total
available   bandwidth   of  the   high-speed   line  into   narrower   channels.
Demultiplexing is the reverse of multiplexing.

OC Units:  See "SONET" below.

Packet: A group of binary digits  transmitted and routed as a whole. Each packet
contains  information,  a destination  code,  and a sequencing  code in order to
place the data in proper  place in the  sequence  of  packets  that  comprise  a
complete data transmission and codes used to check the transmission errors.

Point-of-Presence  (POP):  1. A geographic  area within  which a  communications
network allows local access.  2.  Locations  where a  long-distance  carrier has
installed  transmission  equipment  in a service  area that serves as, or relays
calls  to, a network  switching  center of that  long-distance  carrier.  3. The
physical  site  where an  Internet  service  provider  has its  modems and other
networking gear. Subscribers dial into the POP for Internet access.

Quality of Service  (QoS):  The  ability to define a level of  performance  in a
system.  For example,  ATM networks specify modes of service that ensure optimum
performance for traffic,  such as real-time voice and video.  Voice  information
receives  priority over data  information  in order to ensure speech quality and
prevent delay.

Router:  Device that connects  multiple LANs or the bridge between a LAN and the
WAN.

SDH:  Synchronous Digital Hierarchy - An international  standard for synchronous
data transmission  over fiber; SDH was adapted from SONET,  which is employed in
North America.

SONET:  Synchronous Optical Network - Standard for synchronous data transmission
over glass fiber. Rates are measured in optical carrier (OC) units. For example,
OC-1 equals rates of 51.84 Mbps, OC-3 equals 155 Mbps, OC-12 equals 622 Mbps and
OC-48 equals 2.5 Gbps. The international equivalent is SDH.

T1/E1:  T1 is a digital  transmission  link with a capacity of 1.544 Mbps. A T-1
line can  normally  accommodate  24  voice  conversations  (channels),  each one
digitized at 64 Kbps and one 8-Kbps channel for signaling and control. E1 is the
European designation for T1 and has a capacity of approximately 2 Mbps.

T3/E3: A digital  transmission link capable of transmission speeds of 45 Mbps. A
T-3 line can normally  accommodate 672 voice  conversations.  E3 is the European
designation for T3.

Terabit:  One trillion bits.

WANs:  Wide Area  Network - A shared  network  of  computers  that spans a large
geographical area, normally consisting of multiple LANs or MANs.
