Item 1. Business

Overview

     We design, develop, manufacture and market proprietary, high-voltage,
analog integrated circuits, commonly referred to as ICs, for use primarily in
alternating current to direct current, or AC to DC, power conversion. We have
targeted high-volume power supply markets including:

     .    the cellular telephone market;

     .    the personal computer market;

     .    the cable and direct broadcast satellite decoder box market; and

     .    various other consumer and industrial electronics markets.

     Our ICs cost-effectively bring the benefits of high levels of integration
to AC to DC switching supplies. We believe that the products in our TOPSwitch
family of high-voltage ICs, introduced in 1994, were the first highly integrated
power conversion ICs to achieve widespread market acceptance. We introduced
TOPSwitch II, an enhanced family of our ICs, in April 1997, TinySwitch, a family
of more energy-efficient power conversion ICs, in September 1998, TOPSwitch FX,
a family with greater design flexibility, in March 2000 and TOPSwitch GX, a
family capable of supplying output levels from 6 to 250 watts, in November 2000.

Industry Background

     Virtually every electronic device that plugs into a wall socket requires
some type of power supply to convert high-voltage AC, provided by electric
utilities, into low-voltage DC required by the devices. Additionally,
rechargeable, portable products, such as cellular phones and laptop computers,
also need an AC to DC power supply to recharge their batteries.

     Before 1970, AC to DC power supplies used large, inefficient transformers,
which operated at low frequencies to convert power from AC to DC. In the 1970s,
the invention of high-voltage discrete semiconductors enabled the development of
a new generation of AC to DC "switching" power supplies, which allowed the use
of smaller, more efficient transformers to lower the voltage. Although these
discrete switchers offered advantages over older technologies, over the years
they have not kept pace with the technological advances made in the electronic
devices they power.

     As the pressures from market forces have increased, the limitations of
discrete switchers have become more pronounced. Discrete switchers require
numerous components which limit the power supply designers' ability to reduce
the size, increase the functionality and improve the efficiency of switchers
while at the same time meeting stringent market cost and energy efficiency
requirements. In addition, discrete switchers involve a high level of

                                       3
<PAGE>

design complexity, which limits the scalability of designs and increases
time-to-market and development risks for new products.

     Early attempts to replace discrete switchers with integrated switchers,
using high-voltage analog ICs, did not achieve widespread acceptance in the
marketplace because they were not cost-effective. We addressed this opportunity
in 1994 by introducing our first cost effective IC, TOPSwitch. Our growth since
that time validates our belief that a substantial market opportunity exists for
high-voltage ICs that are cost effective and combine the benefits of integration
that discrete switcher and earlier transformer technologies lack.

Our Highly Integrated Solution

     We have developed several families of high-voltage power conversion ICs,
which we believe are the first highly integrated power conversion ICs to achieve
widespread market acceptance. Since introducing our TOPSwitch family of products
in 1994, we have shipped approximately 525 million TOPSwitch ICs. These patented
ICs achieve a high level of system integration by combining a number of
electronic components into a single IC. Our TOPSwitch and TinySwitch products
enable many power supplies in the 0.5 to 150-watt power range to have a total
cost equal to or lower than discrete switchers. Our TOPSwitch and TinySwitch
products offer the following key benefits to power supplies:

        .  Fewer Components, Reduced Size and Enhanced Functionality

           Our highly integrated TOPSwitch ICs enable the design and production
           of cost-effective switchers that use up to 50% fewer components and
           have enhanced functionality compared to discrete-based solutions. For
           example, our ICs provide thermal and short circuit protection without
           increasing system cost, while discrete switchers must add additional
           components and cost to provide these functions.

        .  Improved Efficiency

           Our integrated circuit also improves electrical efficiency, which
           reduces power consumption and excess heat generation. Our patented
           low-loss, high-voltage device, combined with its control circuitry,
           improves overall electrical efficiency during both full operation and
           stand-by mode.

        .  Reduced Time-to-Market

           Our integrated circuit makes power supply design simpler and once
           customers have created designs using our ICs, they can apply that
           design to new products, resulting in a shorter time-to-market and
           reduced product development risk.

        .  Wide Power Range and Scalability

           Products in our current TOPSwitch families can address a power range
           of 0.5 to 150 watts. The scalable architecture of these ICs allows
           switcher designers to adapt their existing TOPSwitch-based designs to
           a wide range of products to address many different power supply
           markets.

Strategy

     Our objective is to be the leading provider of high-voltage power
conversion ICs. We intend to pursue the following strategies to accelerate
adoption of our products:

        .  Target High-Volume Markets

           Because of our products' scalability and ability to address a wide
           power range, a small number of products address a wide variety of
           customer needs, allowing us to take advantage of economies of scale
           and making us more competitive.

                                       4
<PAGE>

        .  Focus on Markets that Can Derive Significant Benefits from
           Integration

           We are initially focusing our efforts on those markets that are
           particularly sensitive to size, portability, energy efficiency and
           time to market issues. We achieved early success in the cellular
           phone fast charger market, as cellular phone customers demanded more
           portable travel chargers instead of stand-alone desktop chargers. We
           have also achieved some success in the desktop PC market due to the
           market's demand for stand-by power capability, and in the cable and
           direct broadcast satellite decoder box market due to that market's
           need for reducing component count and for shortening product design
           cycles. As other markets emerge as significant opportunities for our
           TOPSwitch products, we intend to focus our resources on the
           development and penetration of those markets.

        .  Deliver Systems Solutions and Provide Applications Expertise

           To help potential customers decide to purchase our TOPSwitch
           products, we offer comprehensive application design support. We
           provide extensive application notes and production-ready reference
           design boards. We also provide application-engineering support out of
           our headquarters and through field application engineering labs
           located in China, England, Germany, India, Japan, Korea and Taiwan.
           We have committed substantial resources to system support by
           dedicating approximately one-third of our technical workforce to
           applications engineering. We believe our power supply systems
           expertise and investment in field applications engineering provide us
           significant competitive advantages.

        .  Extend Technological Leadership in High-Voltage Analog ICs

           Our proprietary device structures and fabrication processes as well
           as analog circuit designs have resulted in 29 U.S. patents and 56
           foreign patents. These patents, in combination with our other
           intellectual property, form the basis of our TOPSwitch and TinySwitch
           product families. We recently introduced an enhanced TOPSwitch
           product family that provides improved power capability and system
           cost advantages while preserving the design simplicity of our
           original TOPSwitch products. We continue to improve our device
           structures, wafer fabrication processes and analog circuit designs
           and seek to obtain additional patents to protect our intellectual
           property.

        .  Leverage Patented Technology in Strategic Relationships

           We have established relationships with Matsushita Electronics
           Corporation, and with OKI Electric Industry in order to take
           advantage of these companies' high volume manufacturing resources,
           and in the case of Matsushita, generate royalty revenues. Our wafer
           manufacturing relationships with Matsushita and OKI enable us to
           focus on fundamental high-voltage silicon technology, product design
           and marketing while minimizing fixed costs and capital expenditures.
           Matsushita also has licensed the right to manufacture our products
           for sale in certain geographic regions and for use in its own
           products.

Products

     Below is a brief description of our products:

        .  TOPSwitch Product Families

           Our TOPSwitch high-voltage analog IC products are able to meet the
           power conversion needs of a wide range of applications within high
           volume markets. Sales of TOPSwitch products accounted for 98%, 97%
           and 95% of our net revenues in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

               .  TOPSwitch

                                       5
<PAGE>

                  The TOPSwitch family was introduced in 1994 and consists of 13
                  products. The key benefits of the TOPSwitch family compared to
                  discrete switchers include fewer components, reduced size,
                  enhanced functionality and lower cost in many applications.
                  Our TOPSwitch products integrate a PWM controller, a high-
                  voltage MOSFET and a number of other electronic components
                  into a single 3 terminal IC. These products are produced in
                  two high-voltage versions--a 350-volt version for the 115VAC-
                  switcher markets, including the United States and Japan, and a
                  700-volt version for the 230VAC-switcher markets, including
                  Europe.

               .  TOPSwitch II

                  The TOPSwitch II family was introduced in April 1997 and
                  consists of 11 products. The TOPSwitch II products further
                  lower the switcher costs by improving the performance of
                  TOPSwitch and addressing low power applications. The TOPSwitch
                  II family uses the same proprietary architecture as the
                  original TOPSwitch family, enabling switcher designers
                  experienced with TOPSwitch to take advantage of the TOPSwitch
                  II benefits without implementing a new architecture.

               .  TinySwitch

                  The TinySwitch family was introduced in September 1998 and
                  consists of 5 products. The product line topology was
                  specifically designed to address low power applications below
                  10 watts. The TinySwitch family of high voltage ICs was the
                  first family of chips to incorporate EcoSmart technology to
                  address the growing global demand to reduce energy waste in a
                  wide range of electronic products. It dramatically reduces the
                  energy consumed during standby and no-load enabling our
                  customers to meet governmental energy efficiency guidelines.

               .  TOPSwitch-FX

                  The TOPSwitch-FX family was introduced in March 2000 and
                  consists of 6 products. This family offers engineers greater
                  design flexibility to develop highly integrated power
                  supplies. New features integrated into the TOPSwitch-FX parts
                  continue to reduce the system cost of power supplies as well
                  as improve their performance. In addition, this product line
                  incorporates our energy saving EcoSmart technology to help
                  meet the growing need for environmentally friendly power
                  solutions. The family delivers up to 75 watts of power for use
                  in markets such as cellular phone chargers, personal
                  computers, set-top boxes and DVD players.

               .  TOPSwitch-GX

                  The TOPSwitch-GX family was introduced in November 2000 and
                  consists of 11 products capable of supplying output power
                  levels from 6 watts to 250 watts. TOPSwitch-GX is the first
                  monolithic high voltage switching power IC capable of
                  providing this level of power. The new family incorporates the
                  features offered in earlier TOPSwitch product families as well
                  as new ones through additional user configurable pins. This
                  allows a higher level of end user design flexibility,
                  resulting in improved power supply design optimization and
                  lower system cost. Advanced EcoSmart technology offers
                  improved standby energy efficiency. Applications for
                  TOPSwitch-GX devices include laptop adapters, LCD monitors,
                  printers, desktop computers, Internet appliances, DVD players
                  and uninterruptible power supplies.

                                       6
<PAGE>

        .  Other Products

           Our products also include our SMP family, our INT family and a
           limited number of custom products. Sales of these products accounted
           for 2%, 3% and 5% of our net revenues in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
           respectively. We expect revenue from these products to continue to
           decline as a percentage of net revenues.

               .  SMP

                  The SMP family is the original line of power conversion
                  products, which we developed for the AC to DC power supply
                  market. These products are used in applications where switcher
                  designers are willing to pay a premium price for additional
                  features such as variable frequency.

               .  INT

                  The INT products are interface drivers for motor control
                  applications, which utilize our high-voltage process
                  technology.

               .  Custom Products

                  We also manufacture a limited number of custom products,
                  including a hook switch for telephones.

                                       7
<PAGE>

Markets and Customers

     Our strategy is to target high-volume power supply markets and to initially
focus on markets that can benefit the most from our highly integrated power
conversion ICs. The following chart shows representative customers and end users
of our products in power supplies in several major market segments.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Market Segment                                       Customers
---------------------------------------              ---------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>
        .  Cellular Phones

               Battery Chargers                      Eastcom, Ericsson Hyundai, ICC, Lucky
                                                     Goldstar, Motorola and its subsidiaries,
                                                     Mitsubishi, Nokia, Phihong Enterprises,
                                                     Sagem, Salom, Samsung Electronics

        .  Desktop Computers

               Stand-by Power                        Acbel (API), Artesyn, Astec, Compaq,
                                                     Dell, Delta Electronics, Hewlett
                                                     Packard, Hipro, IBM, Intertek, Likom,
                                                     Liteon, Minebea, Magnetek, SPI,
                                                     Samsung, Seventeam, Sirtec Tiger

        .  Cable and Direct Broadcast Satellite

               Set-top Decoders                      Acbel (API), Amstrad, General
                                                     Instruments, Grundig, Hughes, Magnetek,
                                                     Motorola, Nokia, Pace, Pioneer,
                                                     Samsung, Scientific Atlanta, Sony, UEC,
                                                     Vestelcom

        .  PC Peripherals

               Multi-media Monitor & Audio           Altec, In-Focus,Compaq, Harman, JBL, Logitech,
                                                     Lucky Goldstar, Sony
               Universal Serial Bus                  LG, Samsung, Sony
               Removable Mass Storage                Iomega, Seagate

        .  Consumer

               TV                                    Daewoo, Hitachi, Lucky Goldstar, Nokia, Philips,
                                                     Samsung, Sharp, Sony,  Vestel, Xocexo, Zenith
               VCR                                   Aiwa, Daewoo, Sony
               DVD                                   Amoisonic, Orient Power, Shinco, Thakral

        .  Industrial

               Utility Meters                        Brainchild, Schlumberger, Siemens, Whisper
               Uninterruptible Power Supply          APC, Exide Electronics, Powerware, Rompower

        .  Home Appliances

               Washing Machines, Air                 AKO-Werke, Bosch-Siemens, Changhong, Fisher-Paykel,
               Conditioners, Dish                    General Electric, Hualing, Kelon, Lucky Goldstar,
               Washers, Vacuum                       Meide, Miele, Samsung, Shanghai Sinyuan, Whirlpool
               Cleaners
</TABLE>

                                       8
<PAGE>

 Description of Our Primary Markets

        .  Cellular Phone Chargers

           In the cellular phone market, size, portability and more recently,
           energy efficiency are key market drivers for these products. We
           believe a substantial market opportunity exists for small, energy
           efficient power supplies for battery chargers. We estimate the total
           available annual market for cell phone chargers was approximately 500
           million units in 2000.

        .  Desktop Computer Standby Power Supplies

           Governmental authorities are promoting computer manufacturers to use
           highly efficient stand-by power in new PCs to reduce the PCs' power
           consumption when idle. Our TOPSwitch and TinySwitch products are
           currently being used in computers to reduce the power consumed when
           idle and to meet the market demand for more energy-efficient
           computers. We estimate that the annual market for standby power
           supplies for desktop PCs was approximately 110 million units in 2000.

        .  Cable and Direct Broadcast Satellite Decoder Boxes

           Cable and direct broadcast satellite decoder box manufacturers are
           particularly sensitive to component count, set-top box size and the
           ability to shorten their product design cycles. Our TopSwitch
           products are currently helping them solve these problems and provide
           other benefits inherent with an integrated solution. We estimate that
           the annual market for power supplies in cable and direct broadcast
           satellite decoder boxes was approximately 40 million units in 2000.

        .  Other Markets

           Although we currently focus on the above key markets, we also sell
           products into a wide variety of other markets, which include PC
           peripherals, modems, televisions, VCRs, DVD players, industrial
           meters and home appliances. As these and other markets emerge as
           significant opportunities for our IC products, we intend to focus our
           resources on the development and penetration of these markets.

Sales, Distribution and Marketing

     We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers, OEMs, and
merchant power supply manufacturers through a direct sales staff and through a
worldwide network of independent sales representatives and distributors.. Our
international sales representatives also act as distributors in Europe and Asia.
In the United States, we use two national distributors and a number of regional
sales representatives. We have sales offices in Corona Del Mar, California,
Marietta, Georgia, Bloomingdale, Illinois, and Wakefield, Massachusetts, as well
as in China, England, Germany, India, Japan, Korea and Taiwan. For 2000, direct
sales to OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers represented approximately
50% of our net revenues while sales through distributors accounted for the
remaining 50%. All distributors are entitled to certain return privileges based
on sales revenue and are protected from price reductions affecting their
inventories. Our distributors are not subject to minimum purchase requirements
and the sales representatives and distributors can discontinue marketing any of
our products at any time.

     Our products are generally incorporated into a customer's power supply at
the design stage. Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on facilitating
the customer's use of our products in the design of new power supplies for
specific applications. An important competitive factor in determining whether a
customer decides to use our products in its designs is our commitment to provide
comprehensive application design support. We publish comprehensive databooks and
design guides, and provide to our current and prospective customers extensive
application notes and production-ready reference design boards. In addition, we
provide application-engineering support out of our headquarters, and our field
application engineering labs provide local resources to support customers in key
geographies. We focus particular efforts on building relationships with, and
providing support to, industry-leading OEMs and merchant power supply
manufacturers. We have committed substantial

                                       9
<PAGE>

resources to system support by dedicating approximately one-third of our
technical workforce to applications engineering.

     Our end user base is highly concentrated, and a relatively small number of
OEMs, directly or indirectly through merchant power supply manufacturers,
accounted for a significant portion of our revenue in 2000 and 1999. We estimate
that our top ten customers, including distributors which resell to large OEMs
and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for 69%, 68% and 67% of our
net revenues for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. For 2000, Maxisum (Insight),
and Synnex Technologies, both distributors, accounted for 22% and 10% of our net
revenues, respectively. For 1999, these two distributors accounted for 16% and
11% of our net revenues, respectively. For 1998, Maxisum and Synnex accounted
for 22% and 13% of our net revenues, respectively. No other customers accounted
for more than 10% of net revenues during 2000, 1999 and 1998. In 2000, 1999 and
1998, international sales comprised 84%, 78% and 83%, respectively, of our net
revenues.

     Sales of our products are generally made pursuant to standard purchase
orders, which are frequently revised to reflect changes in the customer's
requirements. Product deliveries are scheduled upon our receipt of purchase
orders. Generally, these orders allow customers to reschedule delivery dates and
cancel purchase orders without significant penalties. For these reasons, we
believe that purchase orders received, while useful for scheduling production,
are not necessarily reliable indicators of future revenues.

     In the Japanese market, we have a license agreement with Matsushita under
which Matsushita sells its versions of our products. While we continued to sell
products to our existing Japanese customers, in April 1997, as part of the
license agreement, we agreed not to pursue new business in Japan until after
June 2000. Our new license agreement with Matsushita, effective July 2000, does
not have this restriction and we have begun to market our products again in
Japan. We will continue to support our Japanese customers through our office in
Japan.

Technology

        .     High-Voltage Transistor Structure and Process Technology

              We have developed a patented high-voltage, power IC technology,
              which uses our proprietary high voltage MOS transistor structure
              and fabrication process and has resulted in 8 U.S. patents. The
              technology enables us to integrate cost effectively on the same
              monolithic IC, high-voltage n-channel transistors with industry
              standard CMOS and bipolar components. The IC device structure and
              the wafer fabrication process both contribute to the cost
              effectiveness of our high-voltage technology. Recently introduced
              novel, high-voltage technology further improves silicon efficiency
              of the devices by using dual-conduction layers. The device
              structure provides a transistor conduction capability that results
              in a significantly more cost-effective high voltage device than
              that of competing technologies. Our high voltage ICs have been
              implemented on low cost silicon wafers using standard 5V silicon
              processing techniques combined with our proprietary implant
              process step, with relatively large feature sizes, up to a
              3-micron CMOS process.

        .     IC Design and System Technology

              Our proprietary IC designs combine complex control circuits and
              high-voltage transistors on the same monolithic IC and have
              resulted in 19 U.S. patents. Our IC design technology takes
              advantage of our high-voltage process to minimize the die size of
              both the high-voltage device and control circuits and improve the
              performance of our ICs versus alternative integration
              technologies. We also have developed system expertise in switching
              converters that have resulted in new innovative topologies that
              reduce system cost, increase system performance and greatly
              improve energy efficiency of power supplies compared to
              alternative approaches. The combination of our IC design
              technology and our system level expertise in switcher converters
              has enabled us to develop revolutionary products such as the
              highly integrated TOPSwitch, TOPSwitch-GX and TinySwitch family of
              ICs and scalable architecture for integrated switchers.

                                       10
<PAGE>

Research and Development

     Our research and development efforts are focused on improving our
high-voltage device structures, wafer fabrication processes, analog circuit
designs and system level architecture. By these efforts, we seek to further
reduce the costs of our products, and improve the cost effectiveness and enhance
the functionality of our customers' power supplies. We have assembled a
multidisciplined team of highly skilled engineers to meet our research and
development goals. These engineers bring expertise in high-voltage structure and
process technology, analog design and power supply systems architecture.

     In 2000, 1999 and 1998, we spent $12.5 million, $10.8 million and $7.2
million, respectively, on research and development efforts. We expect to
continue to invest substantial funds in research and development activities. The
development of high-voltage analog ICs is highly complex. We cannot guarantee
that we will develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective
manner or that our development efforts will successfully permit our products to
meet changing market demands.

Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights

     We use a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and
confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. We hold
29 U.S. patents and have generally filed for or received foreign patent
protection on these patents resulting in 56 foreign patents to date. The U.S.
patents have expiration dates ranging from 2006 to 2019. Eight of the U.S.
patents are related to the device structure of the high-voltage transistor, ten
are circuit patents that have been used in our products and three are circuit
patents that provide the foundation for our TOPSwitch products. Two of the U.S.
patents cover specific system applications using TOPSwitch. Additionally, we
have six new circuit patents, which we believe will provide a basis for our new
and future products. We are currently pursuing additional U.S. patent
applications relating to improvements and extensions of our products. We cannot
guarantee that our pending United States or foreign patent applications or any
future United States or foreign patent applications will be approved, that any
issued patents will protect our intellectual property or will not be challenged
by third parties, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect
on our ability to do business. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that others will
not independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any
of our patents. We also hold 14 trademarks, five in the U.S., two in California,
two in Taiwan, one in Korea, one in Hong Kong and three in Japan.

     We regard as proprietary certain equipment, processes, information and
knowledge that we have developed and used in the design and manufacture of our
products. Our trade secrets include a proprietary high volume production process
that produces our patented high-voltage ICs. We attempt to protect our trade
secrets and other proprietary information through non-disclosure agreements,
proprietary information agreements with employees and consultants and other
security measures. Despite these efforts, we cannot guarantee that others will
not gain access to our trade secrets, or that we can meaningfully protect our
intellectual property. In addition, effective trade secret protection may be
unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Although we intend to
protect our rights vigorously, we cannot assure that such measures will be
completely successful.

     We have granted a perpetual non-transferable license to Matsushita to use
our semiconductor patents and other intellectual property for our current
high-voltage technology, including our TOPSwitch technology and improvements on
the existing technology, which allows Matsushita to manufacture and design
products for internal use and for sale or other distribution to Japanese
companies and to subsidiaries of Japanese companies in Asia. To the extent the
products they manufacture and design are not based on the TOPSwitch technology,
Matsushita may make sales or other distribution to Asian companies in Asia.
Matsushita has granted us perpetual cross licenses to the technology developed
by them under their license rights. We have agreed not to license the technology
licensed to Matsushita to other Japanese companies or their subsidiaries prior
to July 2005. In exchange for its license rights, Matsushita has paid and will
continue to pay to us licensing fees for a fixed period and has paid or will pay
royalties on products using the licensed technology during fixed periods.

     We have also granted a perpetual, non-transferable license to AT&T
Microelectronics to use certain of our IC processes and device technologies in
the products AT&T sells. In addition, pursuant to an agreement with

                                       11
<PAGE>

MagneTek, Inc., we have granted MagneTek an exclusive, perpetual royalty-free
license to manufacture lighting products that incorporate certain of our
technology.

Manufacturing

     We contract with Matsushita and OKI to manufacture our wafers in foundries
located in Japan. Our semiconductor products are assembled and packaged by
independent subcontractors in China, Malaysia and the Philippines. We perform
testing, finishing and shipping at our facility in San Jose, California. This
fabless manufacturing model enables us to focus on our engineering and design
strengths, minimize fixed costs on capital expenditures, and still have access
to high-volume manufacturing capacity. Our products do not require leading edge
process geometries for them to be cost-effective, and thus we can use Matsushita
and OKI's older, low-cost facilities for wafer manufacturing. We use a
proprietary and sensitive implant process and must interact closely with
Matsushita and OKI to achieve satisfactory yields. Although we generally utilize
standard IC packages for assembly, some materials and aspects of assembly are
specific to our products. We require our manufacturers to use a high-voltage
molding compound that is difficult to process and is available from only one
supplier. This compound and its required processes, together with the other
non-standard materials and processes needed to assemble our products, require a
more exacting level of process control than normally required for standard
packages. As a result we must be involved with our contractors on an active
engineering basis to maintain and improve the process. We have developed process
monitoring equipment to support this effort and must provide adequate
engineering resources to provide similar support in the future.

     Our wafer supply agreements with Matsushita and OKI expire in June 2005 and
September 2003, respectively. Under the terms of our agreement with Matsushita,
we establish minimum annual and monthly purchase and sale commitments annually
with the mutual agreement of Matsushita. We also establish pricing by good faith
agreement, subject to our right to most favored pricing. Under the terms of the
OKI agreement, OKI has agreed to reserve a specified amount of production
capacity and to sell wafers to us at fixed prices. Our agreements with both
Matsushita and OKI provide for the purchase of wafers in Japanese yen.

     We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach an agreement with either
Matsushita or OKI to extend the term of their respective wafer supply
agreements. Failure to reach, in a timely fashion, an extension of either
agreement or to enter into a wafer supply arrangement with another manufacturer
could result in material disruptions in supply. Contractual provisions limit the
conditions under which we can enter into such arrangements with other Japanese
manufacturers or their subsidiaries during the term of the agreement with
Matsushita. In the event of a supply disruption with OKI or Matsushita, if we
were unable to quickly qualify alternative manufacturing sources for existing or
new products or if these sources were unable to produce wafers with acceptable
manufacturing yields, our operating results would suffer.

     We typically receive shipments from Matsushita or OKI approximately 8 to 10
weeks after placing orders, and lead times for new products can be substantially
longer. To provide sufficient time for assembly, testing and finishing, we
typically need to receive wafers from Matsushita and OKI 4 to 6 weeks before the
desired ship date to our customers. As a result of these factors and the fact
that customers' orders can be made with little advance notice, we have only a
limited ability to react to fluctuations in demand for our products. This could
cause us to have excess or a shortage of inventory of a particular product. From
time to time in the past we have been unable to fully satisfy customer requests
as a result of these factors. Any significant disruptions in deliveries would
materially adversely affect our business and operating results. We carry a
substantial amount of inventory of tested wafers to help offset these factors to
better serve our markets and meet customer demand.

Competition

     The high-voltage power supply industry is intensely competitive and
characterized by extreme price sensitivity. Accordingly, the most significant
competitive factor in the target markets for our products is cost effectiveness.
Our products face competition from alternative technologies, including
traditional linear transformers and discrete switcher power supplies. We believe
that at current pricing, our families of high-voltage power conversion ICs offer
favorable cost-performance benefits compared to linear and discrete switcher
supplies in many high-volume applications. However, there has been sizeable
overcapacity of discrete components, which

                                       12
<PAGE>

resulted in significant price erosion for these products during 1999 and 2000. A
continuation of the price decline of discrete components, such as high-voltage
Bipolar and MOSFET transistors and PWM controller ICs, could adversely affect
the cost effectiveness of the TOPSwitch products. Also, older alternative
technologies like linear transformers are more cost-effective than discrete
switchers and integrated switchers that use our ICs in certain power ranges for
certain applications. If power requirements for certain applications in which
our products are currently utilized, such as battery chargers for cellular
telephones, drop below certain power levels, these older alternative
technologies can be used more cost effectively than switchers. Our TinySwitch IC
family, introduced in September 1998, was specifically designed to enhance the
cost effectiveness of our integrated switcher solutions in the low power range.
However, we cannot guarantee that our efforts in this area will be successful.

     Recently, our TOPSwitch product families have begun to meet increased
competition from hybrid and single high-voltage ICs similar to TOPSwitch. These
competing products are being developed or have been developed and are being
produced by companies such as ON Semiconductor, STMicroelectronics, Fairchild
Semiconductor and Sanken Electric Company. We expect competition to increase as
companies like these see the success we have had in converting older
technologies to the integrated solutions enabled by our product offerings. To
the extent these competitors' products are more cost effective than our
products, our business, financial condition and operating results could be
materially adversely affected. Many of our emerging competitors, including
Motorola, STMicroelectronics, Samsung and Sanken, have significantly greater
financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than do we. In the
context of a market where a high-voltage IC is designed into a customer's
product and the provider of such ICs is therefore the sole source of the IC for
that product, greater manufacturing resources may be a significant factor in the
customer's choice of the IC because of the customer's perception of greater
certainty in its source of supply.

     Our ability to compete in our target markets also depends on such factors
as:

     .    timing and success of new product introductions by us and our
          competitors;

     .    the pace at which our customers incorporate our products into their
          end user products;

     .    availability of wafer fabrication and finished good manufacturing
          capability;

     .    availability of adequate sources of raw materials;

     .    protection of our products by effective utilization of intellectual
          property laws; and

     .    general economic conditions.

     We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete favorably
or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new
products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies
entering this market. Our failure to compete successfully in the high-voltage
power supply business would materially adversely affect our business, financial
condition and operating results.

Employees

     As of December 31, 2000, we employed 237 full time personnel, consisting of
94 in manufacturing, 58 in research and development, 30 in applications support,
30 in sales and marketing and 25 in finance and administration.

                                       13
<PAGE>

Executive Officers of Power Integrations

     As of February 28, 2001, our executive officers, which are elected by and
serve at the discretion of the board of directors, were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name                          Position With Power Integrations                                      Age
--------------------------    ------------------------------------------------------------      --------
<S>                           <C>                                                               <C>
Howard F. Earhart             Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer          61
Balu Balakrishnan             Vice President, Engineering and Strategic Marketing                   46
Roderick D. Davies            Vice President, Operations                                            50
Joyce Engberg                 Vice President, Information Technology                                51
Richard S. Fassler            Vice President, Marketing                                             49
Robert J. Lelieur             Acting Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer            58
Vladimir Rumennik             Vice President, Technology Development                                55
Daniel M. Selleck             Vice President, Worldwide Sales                                       54
Clifford J. Walker            Vice President, Corporate Development                                 49
Alan D. Bickell(1)(2)         Director                                                              64
Nicholas E. Brathwaite(2)     Director                                                              42
R. Scott Brown(1)             Director                                                              59
E. Floyd Kvamme(1)(2)         Director                                                              63
Steven J. Sharp               Director                                                              59
</TABLE>

_________________

(1)  Member of the compensation committee

(2)  Member of the audit committee

     Howard F. Earhart has served as our president, chief executive officer and
as a director since January 1995. Mr. Earhart brings more than 30 years of
executive management experience to Power Integrations. His management experience
includes photographic film products at Eastman Kodak and consumer products at
Memorex Corporation where he was president of the Consumer Products Group. Mr.
Earhart also served as the CEO of Lin Data Corp. and Information Magnetics
Corporation; both companies manufacture semiconductor-based components for the
disk drive industry. He holds a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Clarkson
University.

     Balu Balakrishnan has served as our vice president, engineering and
strategic marketing since September 1997. From September 1994 to September 1997,
Mr. Balakrishnan served as our vice president, engineering and marketing. Mr.
Balakrishnan served as our vice president, design engineering from April 1989 to
September 1994.

     Roderick D. Davies has served as our vice president, operations since
August 1999. In the previous eight years Mr. Davies held various positions,
including vice president of the business unit management, and marketing and
operations positions at International Rectifier, a worldwide supplier of power
semiconductors used for power conversion.

     Joyce Engberg has served as our vice president, information technology
since February 1999. From January 1996 to January 1999, Ms. Engberg served as
chief information officer of Spectrian, a manufacturer of RF power amplifiers.
From January 1993 to January 1996, Ms. Engberg served as director of technical
services of Consilium, a software company.

                                       14
<PAGE>

     Richard S. Fassler has served as our vice president, marketing since
January 2000. From 1986 to 2000, Mr. Fassler held various positions, most
recently as the vice president of sales and marketing at IXYS Corporation, a
designer and developer of power semiconductors.

     Robert J. Lelieur has served as our acting vice president, finance and
chief financial officer since September 2000. From September 1997 to September
2000, Mr. Lelieur served as our director of finance. From July 1990 to September
1997, Mr. Lelieur held various senior level financial positions at Advanced
Computer Communications, a developer and manufacturer of inter-networking
software products, and National Insurance Group, a high-tech developer of risk
management services.

     Vladimir Rumennik has served as our vice president, technology development
since April 1991. From February 1990 to March 1991, Mr. Rumennik was our
director of technology development. Prior to January 1990, Mr. Rumennik was a
manager at Signetics, a semiconductor company and a subsidiary of Philips
Semiconductor.

     Daniel M. Selleck has served as our vice president, worldwide sales since
May 1993. From February 1984 to May 1993, Mr. Selleck held various sales
management positions with Philips Semiconductor including European regional
sales manager and western area sales manager in the United States.

     Clifford J. Walker has served as our vice president, corporate development
since June 1995. From September 1994 to June 1995, Mr. Walker served as vice
president of Reach Software, a software company. From December 1993 to September
1994, Mr. Walker served as president of Morgan Walker, a consulting company.

     Alan D. Bickell has served as a member of the board of directors since
April 1999. Mr. Bickell retired in 1996 after more than 30 years with Hewlett
Packard, serving as a corporate senior vice president and managing director of
geographic operations since 1992.

     Nicholas E. Brathwaite has served as a member of the board of directors
since January 2000. Mr. Brathwaite currently serves as senior vice president and
chief technology officer for Flextronics International, a provider of
engineering, advanced electronics manufacturing and logistical services, and has
held various engineering management positions with Flextronics since 1995. From
1989 to 1995, Mr. Brathwaite held various management positions at nChip, a
multi-chip module company.

     R. Scott Brown has served as member of the board of directors since July
1999. From 1985 to May 1999, Mr. Brown served as senior vice president of
worldwide sales and support for Xilinx, Inc., a designer and developer of
complete programmable logic solutions for use by electronic equipment
manufacturers.

     E. Floyd Kvamme has served as a member of the board of directors since
September 1989. Mr. Kvamme has been a general partner of Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers, a venture capital company, since 1984. Mr. Kvamme also serves
on the boards of Brio Technology, Harmonic Inc., National Semiconductor, Photon
Dynamics and several private companies.

     Steven J. Sharp is one of our founders and has served as a member of the
board of directors since our inception. Mr. Sharp has served as president, chief
executive officer and chairman of the board of TriQuint Semiconductor, a
manufacturer of gallium arsenide integrated circuits, since September 1991.
