ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

Founded in 1982, Sigma Designs Inc. specializes in silicon-based MPEG decoding solutions for consumer digital video devices such as high-end DVD players, IP set top boxes, and next generation digital cable set top boxes, as well as streaming video-on-demand systems. Headquartered in Milpitas, California, Sigma also has a research and development center in France, as well as sales offices in China, Europe, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea and Taiwan. Our award-winning REALmagic video-streaming technology is used in both commercial and consumer applications, providing highly integrated solutions for high-quality decoding of MPEG-1, MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 content. Based on this core technology, Sigma has developed system solutions for convergence products including streaming video, DVD playback, Internet connectivity and personal video recording. Sigma's products are sold worldwide through a direct sales force, distributors and original equipment manufacturers.

A pioneer in the MPEG hardware decoder market, Sigma introduced its REALmagic card in 1993, a MPEG playback card for PCs. In April 1997, we announced our entry into the DVD market. A key element of DVD specification is the use of MPEG-2 standards for digital video compression, a technology with which Sigma has established expertise. Thus, Sigma's MPEG-2 chips and add-in boards have been used worldwide in leading multimedia PC platforms to enable applications such as DVD title creation, DVD decoding, streaming video and IP multicasting. 

During the past few years, Sigma has expanded well beyond its PC card beginnings and is working with telecommunication companies, or telcos and cable operators on trial deployments involving advanced DSL, broadband over cable, fiber to the home, and other networks for delivering VOD to consumer homes, multiple dwelling units and commercial hotel chains. This involvement has led to technology investments in streaming video silicon and software. At the end of 2001, Sigma introduced the industry's first DVD resolution MPEG-4 decoder chip for set-top appliances. We have secured numerous design wins and are shipping this product for applications including IP-based set top boxes for video over DSL, fiber to the home, and advanced DVD players.


Sigma became the first to market set-top box silicon with MPEG-4 decoding. In June 2002, Sigma announced the industry's first complete DVD decoder chip that provides decoding of full resolution MPEG-4 content and high definition progressive output. MPEG-4 is the next-generation digital video compression standard, enabling content developers to create sophisticated programs containing audio, video, text, graphics and interactivity. The object-oriented environment of MPEG-4 provides for complex scene compression at low bit rates or correspondingly small file sizes, making it ideal for either lower cost or higher resolution storage. Based on these advantages, MPEG-4 is beginning to make its way into all forms of set-top appliances, including IP-STBs (Internet protocol set-top boxes such as media gateways and video endpoints), digital cable systems and now DVD players. Furthermore, through new authoring tools and services, MPEG-4 will enable a new class of interactive video to be utilized for broadcast, on-demand or published media usage. Beyond this, the introduction of compression improvements, such as MPEG-4 part 10 (also known as H.264) are bolstering overall demand for advanced CODEC (compression / decompression) technologies. 

Sigma was incorporated in California in January 1982. Our principal executive office is located at 1221 California Circle, Milpitas, California 95035. Our telephone number is (408) 262-9003, and our Internet home page is located at http://www.sigmadesigns.com; however, the information in, or that can be accessed through, our home page is not part of this report.


Market Segments


IP Streaming Over DSL and Fiber: 
Currently, telecommunications companies are increasingly pressured to offer the "triple play" combined services of telephony, video, and data in competition against cable operators. DSL providers can readily offer telephony and data, but are having difficulty in finding a mechanism to deliver the video portion. While MPEG-2 compression is currently being deployed by DSL providers, the improved MPEG-4 compression provides a means to deliver this same quality on a much wider range of lower bandwidth DSL networks. InStat estimates that video on demand via Internet protocol will grow to more than 17 million users worldwide (with the highest growth in Europe and Asia), generating an estimated $1.6 billion in subscription and pay-per-view revenue in 2006. 


Sigma announced in September 2002 that it has been selected by Samsung and SOFTBANK Broadmedia as the supplier of MPEG decoder chips for a new broadband TV service deployment in Japan. Using the latest in broadband technology, the SOFTBANK service enables the delivery of multi-channel television (including true video-on-demand and a personal program guide) via standard television sets. In addition, we announced in June 2002 that it has begun selling MPEG-4 chips to Kreatel for use in Kreatel's IP-STB devices being deployed by HanseNet in Germany. HanseNet's parent company, eBiscom is also deploying IP-STBs for broadband TV services in other markets in Europe using Sigma's chips. 

High-End Consumer DVD Players:

In August of 2002, Sigma announced that KiSS Technology, a leading European vendor of advanced DVD products, was using Sigma's EM8500 DVD decoder chip in KiSS' new line of advanced DVD players. This new generation of DVD player enables consumers to play both recorded as well as downloaded content in several formats including MPEG-4 and view the content on their televisions in superior quality. 


DVD systems with Sigma's advanced DVD decoder chips allow consumers to enjoy additional features over traditional DVD players. These features include playback of DivX-compatible video files on burned video discs, and increased resolution for high quality playback on HDTV-compatible displays. For example, standard DVD players will display at 480 lines (progressive), whereas Sigma's DVD chip will display at 720 lines (progressive) or 1080 lines (interlaced). Sigma's DVD chip also integrates a scaler and a deinterlacer into a single chip, which would typically require a chipset from traditional DVD chip providers. 

Next-Generation Digital Cable Systems:

Sigma is a member of the e-Box joint venture that is developing a new digital cable solution, based on MPEG-4 technology and focused on delivering enhanced video on demand and interactive TV services. e-Box is based in Tokyo and includes the following public companies in addition to Sigma: Pioneer, Sharp, National Semiconductor, and CMC Magnetics. The joint venture plans to deliver an advanced cable STB to allow MPEG-4 with features such as HDTV resolutions, higher compression ratios for more efficient use of existing bandwidth, and video-on-demand. e-Box is being assisted by Comcast Cable Communications in a technical advisory and field validation capacity.

Commercial VOD Streaming Business:

We maintain a relatively steady revenue stream from our PC board business for hotel video-on-demand systems, kiosks, and PC-DVD decoding functions. We believe that it is in a leadership position in this space and plans to maintain this product line for the foreseeable future. 

Industry Partnerships

To meet customer needs for a complete solution for set- top appliances, Sigma has developed strong partnerships with leading suppliers of chipsets, system software and video servers/encoders. 

Complete solutions for video streaming include key vendors of video servers, MPEG encoders and IP video routers, which include Apple, Cisco, Concurrent, Envivio, Infovalue, iVAST, Mediabolic, Minerva, nCUBE, OKI, SGI, Sun Microsystems and Thirdspace.

Sigma's set-top appliance reference designs, in some cases, depend on vendors of processors, graphics controllers, video encoders and digital TV front-end chipsets, including B2C2, Focus Enhancements, Intel, National Semiconductor, Silicon Image, Cirrus Logic and TVIA. 

In addition, Sigma is working with the following vendors of operating systems, middleware (DVD, DTV, VOD, PVR and Internet) and drivers to provide complete solutions for advanced set-top appliances, which include DTVRo, Metro Link, Microsoft, Stellar One, Mediabolic, Tivella and Tuxia.

Sigma Business Strategy

Our objective is to provide leading digital video decoding solutions that enable full-screen, full-motion, best quality video in streaming applications and on internet set-top boxes, and consumer DVD players. To accomplish this goal, we need to promote widespread acceptance of REALmagic technology and solutions. The key parts of this strategy include:

Win More Set-Top Box Partnerships

We are actively working with several partners to promote the use of our silicon solutions for video on demand and DVD playback in set-top box applications. We will continue to nurture these relationships in order to associate with the volume manufacturers of these set-top boxes and enable more opportunities for uses of our silicon solutions. So far, these relationships have focused on set-top box designs that provide Internet connections via conventional dial up or Digital Subscriber Line, or DSL, technology and to a limited extent, cable networks. We are actively seeking additional relationships with an expanded set of network providers and manufacturers in these and other segments.

Introduce New Generations of Decoder Chipsets 

A significant aspect of our product strategy is to increase the sale of chipsets featuring our REALmagic Video Streaming Technology while continuing to develop newer versions and generations of products, including chipsets for set-top boxes, advanced DVD progressive players, and HDTV applications. We seek to continue to offer consumers better-featured and lower- priced products over time.

Sigma Products 

Sigma currently markets products primarily in two forms, chipsets and board-level products. 

Chipset Products: Sigma's line of MPEG decoder chips featuring REALmagic video streaming technology is designed to provide the highest quality video possible. We complement our silicon technology with an embedded software base, portable to a wide range of operating environments. Featuring VOD and DVD client players, Sigma's software is available under Windows, Linux and WinCE operating systems. 


EM8220/8300 SERIES: provides MPEG-1 and 2 video decoding solutions for PC-based DVD playback and streaming video, which won wide acclaim as the top MPEG hardware for the PC, and included retail offerings by Panasonic. 


EM8400 SERIES: provides MPEG-1 and 2 video and audio decoding for broadband interactive set-top boxes, and has achieved over 40 design wins in its target segment, including such notables as Fujitsu-Siemens, Acer and Samsung.


EM8470 SERIES: represents the first MPEG-4 silicon solution for the set-top box market, in a form that is pin-compatible with our widespread EM8400 to enable convenient upgrades to the latest decoding format. 


EM8500 SERIES: single-chip DVD decoders that offer unique features needed for next-generation progressive DVD players, including support for MPEG-4 and DivX video.


EM8605/10 SERIES: digital media processors for HDTV set-top appliances and media gateways that provide a highly-integrated solution for ATSC, DVB, OpenCable™, IP video, DVD and MPEG-4 decoding.

Board-Level Products: Sigma board-level products, which are based on our silicon and software technology, are marked into both commercial streaming video and consumer PC add-in markets. 


NetStream 2000 SERIES: PC add-in cards featuring high performance MPEG-1 and 2 decoding, bring streaming video to virtually any PC- based system. 


REALmagic DVR: a desktop PC add-in solution that plugs into a standard PCI slot, and works with standard DVD writeable media to enable encoding and authoring of DVD titles in a corporate or educational environment. 


REALmagic Xcard: a consumer PC add-in solution that creates a home theatre solution by plugging into a standard PCI slot and providing TV output from content collected in DVD, VCD, DivX and MPEG-4 formats. 


REALmagic Hollywood Plus: a consumer PC add-in solution that plugs into a standard PCI slot, and provides PC-based hardware playback of DVD or VideoCD content. 

Other Products and Services: in addition to Sigma's main lines of products, we also offer stand-alone systems, primarily our NetStream console, as well as professional development services. 

Reference Designs

As a marketing tool, Sigma provides reference designs, which are end-user prototype designs showing how our silicon solutions integrate into complex consumer appliances. These reference designs serve several purposes, including proof of concept to prospective customers, as well as an invaluable research and development experience for our engineers who develop the integrated end solution. This process gives us ideas for what to incorporate into our next generation solutions.

Marketing and Sales

We currently sell most of our products through our direct sales force. We augment these sales through a select set of distributors and REPs operating in different regions of the world. Our U.S. distributor is Ingram Micro, Inc. Our OEMs include Fujitsu-Siemens, GCT-Allwell, KiSS Technology, Kreatel, LG Electronics, NEC, and Samsung. Our international distributors are strategically located in many countries around the world.

We generally maintain products for distribution through corporate markets based on forecasts rather than firm purchase orders. Additionally, we generally acquire products for sale to our OEM customers only after receiving purchase orders from such customers, which purchase orders are typically cancelable without substantial penalty from such OEM customers. We currently place non-cancelable orders to purchase semiconductor products from our suppliers on an eight to twelve week lead-time basis. Consequently, if, as a result of inaccurate forecasts or canceled purchase orders, anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, requiring significant working capital and resulting in severe pressure on our financial condition. One international customer accounted for 19% of our total net revenues in fiscal 2003. 

Sales to distributors are typically subject to contractual rights of inventory rotation and price protection. Regardless of particular contractual rights, the failure of one or more distributors or OEMs to achieve sustained sell-through of REALmagic products could result in product returns or delayed or uncollectable receivables, contributing to significant fluctuations in our operating results.

Research and Development 

As of January 31, 2003, we had a staff of 67 research and development personnel. The research and development personnel conduct all of our product development with the assistance of a number of independent contractors and consultants. We are focusing our development efforts primarily on MPEG decoder products, including new and improved versions of REALmagic MPEG chipsets and cost reduction processes.

To achieve and maintain technological leadership, we must continue to make technological advancements in the areas of MPEG video and audio compression and decompression. These advancements include maintaining compatibility with emerging standards and multiple platforms, and making improvements to the REALmagic architecture.

We cannot guarantee that any substantial advances will be made in the REALmagic MPEG technology or, if they are made, that we will be able to market such advancements to achieve profitability. 

During fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001, our research and development expenses were $8.4 million, $8.1 million, and $7.4 million, respectively. We plan to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development of future generations of MPEG and other multimedia products. 

Competition

The market for MPEG decoder products is highly competitive. Companies such as Broadcom, ST Microelectronics, and LSI Logic have high profiles in the industry. In addition, other companies with more marketing and financial resources may develop a competitive product that may inhibit the wide acceptance of REALmagic technology. We believe that there are manufacturers who are developing MPEG products that will compete directly with REALmagic products in the near future.

We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market for MPEG decoder products include time to market for new product introductions, product performance, industry standards compatibility, price, and marketing and distribution resources. We believe that we compete most favorably with respect to time to market, product performance and price of our REALmagic products.

Licenses, Patents and Trademarks

We continually seek patent protection for certain software and hardware features in current and future versions of REALmagic. We currently have nine pending patent applications for our REALmagic technology. Twenty-two patents have been issued to us. We cannot assure you that more patents will be issued or that such patents, even if issued, will provide adequate protection for our competitive position. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through agreements with customers, suppliers and employees and other security measures. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, we cannot assure you that these measures will be successful.

Manufacturing 

To reduce overhead expenses, along with capital and staffing requirements, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to fulfill all of our manufacturing needs, including chipset manufacture and board-level assembly. All of the chips used by us to develop our decoding products are manufactured by outside suppliers and foundries. Each of these suppliers is a sole source of supply for the respective chips produced by such supplier.

Our reliance on independent suppliers involves several risks, including the absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Any delay or interruption in the supply of any of the components required for the production of REALmagic products could seriously harm our sales of products and, thus, our operating results.

Backlog

Since our customers typically expect quick deliveries, we seek to ship products within a few weeks of receipt of a purchase order. However, the customer may reschedule delivery of products or cancel the purchase order entirely without significant penalty. Historically, our backlog has not been reflective of future sales. We also expect that in the near term, our backlog will continue to be not indicative of future sales.

Employees

As of January 31, 2003, we had 116 full-time employees, including 67 in research and development, 25 in marketing, sales and support, 7 in operations, and 17 in finance and administration.

Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and management personnel, who are in great demand. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.
