ITEM 1. BUSINESS

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K "Sigma," "the Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Sigma Designs, Inc.

We specialize in silicon- based digital media processing solutions for consumer products. Our highly- integrated solutions, based on our award-winning REALmagic® Video Technology, provide high-quality decoding of MPEG-4, MPEG-2, MPEG-1 and Windows® Media Video 9 (WMV9) content (note, MPEG (Moving Picture Experts Group) is an international standards body).

Complementing this core technology, we have developed complete system solutions for tomorrow's convergence products, including DVD playback, digital TV (DTV) reception, video over IP, personal video recording (PVR) and video-on-demand (VOD). Our business operates in one segment, consumer electronic devices and products. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our product groups and markets. Our products are sold worldwide through a direct sales force and distributors. Our Common Stock, publicly traded since 1986, is listed on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol SIGM. Headquartered in Milpitas, California, we also have a research and development center in France as well as sales offices in China, Europe, Hong Kong, Japan and Taiwan.

We were founded in 1982, and became a pioneer in the MPEG hardware decoder market in 1993 with the introduction of our REALmagic card, a MPEG playback card for PCs. In April 1997, we announced our entry into the DVD market. During the past few years, we have expanded well beyond our PC card beginnings and are working with consumer electronics manufacturers and network service providers on new products to deploy Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) solutions, digital media adapters, networked DVD players, and high definition television. These opportunities have led to technology investments in media processor chips, streaming video software, digital rights management, and a number of other important technologies. 

At the end of 2001, we introduced the industry's first DVD resolution MPEG-4 decoder chip for set-top appliances, establishing a unique position to contribute to the deployment of next generation capabilities. Since then, we have secured numerous design wins and are shipping this product for applications including IP-based set-top boxes for video over DSL, fiber to the home, and advanced DVD players.

In January 2003 we launched the first high definition television (HDTV) decoder chips with MPEG-4. The announcement formally marked our official entry into the digital TV and media gateway markets. In January 2004 we announced the EM8620L, the first media processor to support WMV9, an advanced video compression technology from Microsoft Corp.

We were incorporated in California in January 1982. The principal executive office is located at 1221 California Circle, Milpitas, California 95035. The telephone number is (408) 262-9003, and the Internet home page is located at www.sigmadesigns.com; however, the information in, or that can be accessed through, the home page is not part of this report. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8- K, and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on our Internet website under "Investors," as soon as reasonably practicable after we filed electronically such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The public may also read and copy any materials we filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding us that we filed electronically with the SEC.

Principal Markets

Our primary focus is to develop and market media processor chipsets for consumer appliances, which can be segmented into three broad categories. Many of our chipset products are designed to be flexibly used in the widest range of applications. 

IP Video Solutions

Video delivered and distributed over Internet Protocol (IP) is emerging as an important product category for a growing number of consumer equipment makers. These solutions can be further segmented into two primary sub-segments, IPTV over DSL and digital media adapters (DMAs). 

Broadband Internet connectivity, highly compressed digital media, and a fundamental demand for entertainment alternatives are paving the way for IPTV delivered over DSL. New set-top boxes, many based on advanced codecs such as MPEG-4 or WMV9 and advanced digital rights management (DRM), are being readied by telcos in Asia and Europe to tap into potential revenue streams. Many of these regional areas currently lack the cable infrastructure that exists in the U.S., thus creating pent up demand for reliable high quality video delivery. We have become a key supplier into these IPTV solutions by offering an optimized feature set with scalable performance silicon and unique streaming video software.

DMAs are a new product category which supports local distribution of video/audio content to television sets throughout the home using wired or wireless connectivity. DMAs are steadily decreasing in price and typically work in conjunction with a centralized media center or gateway to offer ubiquitous digital media within the home. We are a key vendor of chipset solutions for DMAs, taking advantage of the same feature set, and streaming video software developed for the IPTV market.

Companies such as Pinnacle, Lenovo Consume PC (formerly Legend), Vertex Link, Beijing Golden Yuxing Electronics and Technology Co., Ltd., and Shenzhen Tsinghua Tongfang are preparing and providing IP video appliances for the consumer market using our silicon solutions. In addition, the new "T-Online Vision on TV" service, based around the Fujitsu Siemens Center ACTIVY Media Center, is powered by our EM8400 MPEG decoder chips. 

Connected Media Players

Connected media players represent a range of devices that include networked DVD players, portable media devices, and multi-function media centers. 

Premium DVD players with advanced video codecs have been a product of choice for entertainment enth usiasts for over a year. Manufacturers have recently introduced a new range of network connected DVD players, supporting either in-home connectivity or external Internet connections for direct downloading. We pioneered this market with the first DVD decoder chips supporting playback of MPEG-4 and DivX video, and have followed up with the recent announcement of support for WMV9, an important new feature for downloading content. We are an important supplier in this segment and provides comprehensive solutions with the latest codecs (WMV9 and MPEG-4), support for networking and local hard drives, and high definition video output. 

Another sub- segment of demand for our chipsets is portable media devices. With ongoing technology improvements in media compression, wireless communications, and small form-factor storage, portable media players have quickly become the media-on- the-go equivalent of the cell phone. The trend toward hand-held players has already moved to the mainstream for audio, while new advanced video compression schemes are enabling the addition of movies, personal video and photos, for use on the road and within the home. We have begun to penetrate this market by offering media processors that offer the latest codecs in a highly integrated package along with low power dissipation. 

KiSS Technology, a leading European vendor of advanced DVD products, is developing the first DivX certified DVD players using our chipsets. In addition, several companies are preparing new WMV9 capable DVD players to enter the market using our new chips. Of these companies, Apex Digital, Inc., a leader in consumer electronics, demonstrated its new DVD player at the Las Vegas Consumer Electronics Show in early 2004. 

High Definition Television

HDTV sets already represent a substantial and growing product category, currently selling in the millions of units, led by the US market and moving overseas. New widescreen HDTV sets are being offered in an increasing array of forms using three primary technologies - liquid crystal display (LCD), plasma and projection - each providing unique advantages. We offer a growing line of high definition media processors, designed for the new flat panel displays, and offering advanced display processing features to recreate the essence of cinema picture quality. 

Our EM8610 digital media processor has been selected for use in high-definition plasma television sets from KiSS Technology and from Jamo. 

In addition to our primary market segments, we still sell legacy products into commercial VOD streaming and PC add-in markets. 

Industry Alliances

To meet customer needs for a complete system solution, we have developed strong relationships with leading suppliers of chipsets, system software and video servers/encoders. Companies that provide live encoders and server systems enable OEM to deliver complete solutions for IP video streaming applications. Our set-top appliance reference designs, in some cases, depend on vendors of processors, graphics controllers, video encoders, wireless controllers, and DTV tuners, from providers such as Atheros or Toshiba. Furthermore, stand-alone consumer appliances require a substantial amount of software and middleware, from vendors such as Mediabolic, Syabas, or Microsoft, with which we also have strong working relationships.

Sigma Business Strategy

Our objective is to provide digital media processing chipsets that offer advanced features, superior video quality, and rapid time to market for our target applications. To accomplish this goal, we focus on a continual investment in technology, as well as the promotion of our fundamental advantages. 

We believe that our field-proven, patented REALmagic® Video Technology, now in our fourth generation of silicon and equivalent evolution of software, represents one of our key competitive advantages. We continue to invest and build on six primary technology foundations to provide the highest quality digital video/audio solutions possible:

Digital video decoding including MPEG-1, -2 and -4 and proprietary formats, including WMV9; 
Digital audio decoding including MPEG-1, -2 and -4 and proprietary formats, including Dolby® Digital and Windows® Media Audio (WMA); 
Advanced scene composition including advanced video scaling, adaptive deinterlacing, adaptive flicker filtering and prioritized alpha mixing; 
Front-end architectures for effectively processing DRM algorithms, transport handling and conditional access; 
Software clients for VOD and IP multicast and navigation software for DVD-video, DVD-audio, SVCD, VCD, CD and HDD playback; 
Standard-definition (SD) and high-definition (HD) solutions that share a common hardware and software architecture. 
Sigma Products 

We offer chip-level products that enable digital media processing solutions for consumer appliances. Our line of digital media processing chips features REALmagic® Video Technology for the highest quality video possible. We complement our silicon technology with embedded software, portable to a wide range of operating environments. Featuring VOD and media navigation clients, our software is available under Windows, Linux, and WinCE operating systems. In addition, we develop and sell reference platforms designed around our silicon and software as application examples for customer development.

The following chipset products are sold primarily into the consumer appliance market:

The original EM8300 provided MPEG-2 and -1 video decoding solutions for PC-based DVD playback and streaming video, which won wide acclaim as the top MPEG hardware for the PC, and included retail offerings by Creative Labs, Sony, and Panasonic. 
The EM8400 series provides MPEG- 4, -2 and -1 video and audio decoding for broadband interactive set-top boxes, and has achieved more than 40 design wins in its target segment, including companies such as Fujitsu-Siemens, Acer and Samsung. The EM8400 Series represents one of the first MPEG-4 silicon solutions for the set-top box market. 
The EM8500 series is the first solution for DVD players, portable media players and video endpoints to support MPEG-4 and DivX™. It is also the first to feature high-quality scaling to HDTV resolutions and support for DVI/HDCP. The unique features of the EM8500 series enabled the availability of networked DVD players and low-cost video endpoints (digital media adaptors and broadband network devices). 
The EM8610 series represents the first HDTV decoder silicon solutions to also support MPEG-4 and IP video streaming. Designed for HDTVs and advanced set-top boxes, it also offers advanced audio/video processing and progressive DVD playback. The software-compatible EM8610L series addresses the more cost- sensitive SDTV and video endpoint markets. 
The EM8620L series represents the first HD WMV9 decoder silicon solution and also supports DVD and HD MPEG-4/-2 decoding. Designed for video endpoints (such as digital media adaptors and broadband IP video set-top boxes), DVD receivers and advanced DVD players, the EM8620L series offers advanced audio/video processing and HighMAT™ support. Sigma also continues to offer PC add-in products based on our silicon and software technology for commercial streaming and consumer DVD/DivX™ playback. 
We also offer a series of PC based solutions, under the NetStream and REALmagic Xcard brand names, that are sold into the commercial streaming market and PC add-in market respectively:

The NetStream 4000 and 2000TV are PC add-in cards featuring high performance MPEG-4 and -2 decoding, bringing streaming video to virtually any PC-based system. 
The REALmagic Xcard™ is a desktop PC add-in solution that plugs into a standard PCI slot, providing high quality DVD, MPEG-4 and DivX™ Video playback onto a standard TV or HDTV. 
Marketing and Sales

We currently sell most of our products through our direct sales force. We augment these sales through a select set of distributors and manufacturer representatives operating in different regions of the world. Our U.S. distributor is Ingram Micro, Inc. Our OEMs include Fujitsu-Siemens, KiSS Technology, Kreatel, LG Electronics, Lite-On and Samsung. Our international distributors are strategically located in many countries around the world.

We generally maintain products for distribution through corporate markets based on forecasts rather than firm purchase orders. Additionally, we generally acquire products for sale to our OEM customers only after receiving purchase orders from such customers, which purchase orders are typically cancelable without substantial penalty from such OEM customers. We currently place non-cancelable orders to purchase semiconductor products from our suppliers on an eight to twelve week lead-time basis. Consequently, if, as a result of inaccurate forecasts or canceled purchase orders, anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, requiring more working capital and resulting in more pressure on our operating results. International customers accounted for 86% of our total net revenues in fiscal 2004. 

Sales to distributors are typically subject to contractual rights of inventory rotation and price protection. Regardless of particular contractual rights, the failure of one or more distributors or OEMs to achieve sustained sell-through of REALmagic products could result in product returns or delayed or uncollectable receivables, contributing to significant fluctuations in our operating results.

Research and Development

As of January 31, 2004, we had a staff of 79 research and development personnel. These research and development personnel conduct all of our product development with the assistance of a number of independent contractors and consultants. We are focusing our development efforts primarily on MPEG decoder and WMV9 products, including new and improved versions of REALmagic MPEG chipsets and cost reduction processes.

To achieve and maintain technological leadership, we must continue to make technological advancements in the areas of MPEG video and audio compression and decompression. These advancements include maintaining compatibility with emerging standards and multiple platforms, and making improvements to the REALmagic architecture.

During fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002, our research and development expenses were $10.0 million, $8.4 million, and $8.1 million, respectively. We plan to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development of future generations of MPEG and other multimedia products. 

Competition

The market for MPEG decoder products is highly competitive. Rival companies include ESS Technology, Cirrus Logic, Mediatek, Zoran, ATI Technologies, Equator Technologies, Texas Instruments, Phillips, Analog Devices, Broadcom, STMicroelectronics, and LSI Logic. Many of these companies have a higher profile, larger financial resources base, and greater marketing resources than Sigma and may develop a competitive product that may inhibit the wide acceptance of REALmagic technology. We believe that other manufacturers which are developing MPEG products that will compete directly with our products in the near future.

We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market for MPEG decoder products include time to market for new product introductions, product performance, industry standards compatibility, price, and marketing and distribution resources. We believe that we compete most favorably with respect to time to market, product performance and industry standards compatibility, and we may not be able to compete favorably with respect to price, and marketing and distribution resources.

Licenses, Patents and Trademarks

We continually seek patent protection for certain software and hardware features in current versions of REALmagic and intend to do so for future versions of REALmagic. We currently have six pending patent applications for our REALmagic technology. Twenty-eight patents have been issued to us. We cannot assure you that more patents will be issued or that such patents, even if issued, will provide adequate protection for our competitive position. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through agreements with customers, suppliers and employees and other security measures. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, we cannot assure you that these measures will be successful.

Manufacturing

To reduce overhead expenses, along with capital and staffing requirements, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to fulfill all of our manufacturing needs, including chipset manufacture and board-level assembly. All of the chips used by us to develop our decoding products are manufactured by outside suppliers and foundries. Each of these suppliers is our sole source of supply for the respective chips produced by such supplier and we do not have guaranteed price or quantity commitments.

Our reliance on independent suppliers involves several risks, including the potential absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Any delay or interruption in the supply of any of the components required for the production of REALmagic products could seriously harm our sales of products and, thus, our operating results.

Backlog

Since our customers typically expect quick deliveries, we seek to ship products within a few weeks of receipt of a purchase order. However, the customer may reschedule delivery of products or cancel the purchase order entirely without significant penalty. Historically, our backlog has not been reflective of future sales. 

Employees

As of January 31, 2004, we had 133 full-time employees, including 79 in research and development, 29 in marketing, sales and support, 8 in operations, and 17 in finance and administration.

Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and management personnel, who are in great demand. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.
