Item 1. Business and Factors Affecting Future Operating Results

GENERAL

   Silicon Laboratories Inc. designs and develops proprietary, analog-intensive,
mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for the communications industry.
Mixed-signal ICs are electronic components that convert real-world analog
signals, such as sound and radio waves, into digital signals that electronic


                                        2
<Page>

products can process. Therefore, mixed-signal ICs are critical components of
numerous communications products, including wireless phones, cable and
satellite set-top boxes, personal computer modems, voice over digital
subscriber line (DSL) modems, personal video recorders, telephone equipment and
optical networking equipment. To develop our business rapidly, we initially
focused our efforts on developing ICs for the personal computer modem market.
We applied our mixed-signal and communications expertise to the development of
ICs for other high growth communications devices such as wireless telephones,
cable and satellite set-top boxes, voice over DSL modems, personal video
recorders and optical network applications. Our world-class, mixed-signal
design engineers use standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS,
technology to create innovative ICs that can improve the performance and
dramatically reduce the cost, size and system power requirements of devices
that our customers sell to their end-user customers. Our expertise in
analog-intensive, mixed-signal IC design in CMOS allows us to develop new and
innovative products rapidly, which enables our customers to improve their
time-to-market with end products that respond to end customer demand in the
communications industry.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

   In a November 2002 report, the Semiconductor Industry Association projected
that the analog IC market will grow by 19 percent in 2003 to $28 billion in
total sales. Recent growth in the market for communications ICs has been due to
a number of factors, including the growth of Internet usage, development of new
communications technologies, availability of improved communications services
at lower costs, broad deployment of optical networks and remote access
requirements for corporate networks. This demand has fueled tremendous growth
in the number of wireless and wireline communications devices. For example, in
wireless markets, the demand for wireless phones and other wireless devices,
such as personal digital assistants, has grown steadily as digital wireless
services have become increasingly popular and affordable. In wireline markets,
demand has increased for communications capabilities in a wide range of
products, including personal computers (PCs), cable and satellite set-top
boxes, fax machines, credit card verification machines, automated teller
machines and personal video recorders. Consumers increasingly demand higher
capacity connections at their residences using cable modems or high speed DSL.
The demand for greater and faster Internet access by households and businesses
has increased the need to significantly upgrade the communications backbone to
handle this traffic, increasing the need for smaller, faster and better
performing optical networking systems that route this traffic.

   Digital communications devices typically require analog-intensive,
mixed-signal circuits that provide analog-to-digital functionality to access the
communications networks to which they are connected. Traditional designs for
communications devices have used mixed-signal circuits built with numerous
discrete analog and digital components. While these traditional designs provide
the required functionality, they can be inefficient and inadequate for use in
markets where size, cost, power consumption and performance are increasingly
important product differentiators. In order to improve their competitive
position, communications device manufacturers need advanced mixed-signal ICs
that reduce the number of discrete components and required board space to create
smaller products with improved price/performance characteristics. Additionally,
these manufacturers require programmable ICs that can be reconfigured to comply
with numerous and constantly evolving international communications standards
without altering the fundamental design of a product.

   Manufacturers of communications devices face accelerating time-to-market
demands and must adapt to evolving industry standards and new technologies.
Because analog-intensive, mixed-signal IC design expertise is difficult to find,
these manufacturers increasingly are turning to third parties to provide
advanced mixed-signal ICs. Designing the analog component of a mixed-signal IC
involves great complexity and difficulty, because the performance of an analog
IC depends on the creative analog expertise of engineers to optimize speed,
power, amplitude and resolution within the constraints of standard manufacturing
processes. The development of analog design expertise typically requires years
of practical analog design experience under the guidance of a senior engineer,
and engineers with the required level of skill and expertise are in short
supply.

   Many third-party IC providers lack sufficient analog expertise to develop
compelling mixed-signal ICs. As a result, manufacturers of communications
devices are often faced with inadequate mixed-signal ICs and are challenged to
find third-party providers that can supply them with mixed-signal ICs with
greater functionality, smaller size and lower power requirements at a reduced
cost and shorter time-to-market.

                                        3
<Page>

PRODUCTS

   We provide analog-intensive, mixed-signal ICs for use in various
communication applications across eight product areas. Our products integrate
the functions of numerous discrete components required by most existing
mixed-signal solutions for communications devices into single chips or chipsets.
By doing so, we are able to create products that, compared to many competitive
products:

   -  Require less board space;

   -  Reduce the use of external components;

   -  Can offer superior performance;

   -  Provide increased reliability;

   -  Reduce system power requirements; and

   -  Reduce costs.

   The following table summarizes the product areas and applications for the
various ICs that we currently sell or have introduced to customers:

<Table>
<Caption>
PRODUCT AREAS and DESCRIPTION                                    APPLICATIONS
<S>                                                              <C>
WIRELESS PRODUCTS

RF Synthesizer
     A radio frequency, or RF, synthesizer generates high        - GSM/GPRS wireless phones
     frequency signals that are used in wireless                 - GSM/GPRS data communications
     communications systems to select a particular radio           devices
     channel. We provide RF Synthesizers for the Global System   - Wideband CDMA 3G handsets
     for Mobile Communications (GSM)/General Packet Radio        - Wireless local area networks
     Services (GPRS) markets, as well as third generation (3G)   - Cordless phones
     wireless data handsets, industrial, science and medical     - Satellite radio receivers
     (ISM) band applications, and Wideband Code Division         - Wireless headsets
     Multiple Access (W-CDMA) applications. GPRS brings          - Wireless LAN (802.11b) modems
     wireless Internet access to GSM users through data
     transfer and signaling over GSM radio networks. Our
     synthesizers are well-suited to meet the increasing
     requirement for highly-integrated electronics that reduce
     component count and consume less power.

Aero(TM) Transceiver
     This chipset provides highly integrated transmit            - GSM/GPRS wireless phones
     and receive radio electronics that are found                - GSM/GPRS data communications
     between the antennae electronics and the digital baseband     devices
     section of a GSM/GPRS mobile handset or wireless data       - Personal digital assistants
     communication device. The Aero Transceiver addresses dual   - PCMCIA data cards
     or triple band requirements, requires a smaller footprint
     than competing solutions in this form-factor sensitive
     market and supports wireless data transmission.
     The Aero Transceiver chipset is designed using 100%
     standard CMOS process technology which enables an
     aggressive roadmap for cost reduction and integration. The
     most popular standard world-wide for mobile handsets is
     the GSM. The Aero Transceiver chipset is highly optimized
     to satisfy the GSM specifications.
</Table>

                                        4
<Page>

<Table>
<S>                                                              <C>
WIRELINE PRODUCTS

Silicon Direct Access Arrangement (DAA)
     Our DAA provides the functionality of both a direct access    - PCI desktop modems
     arrangement and a codec. A direct access arrangement          - Audio Modem Riser Cards
     provides electrical isolation between a wireline device,      - Mobile Daughter Cards
     such as a modem, and the telephone line to guard against      - Notebook modems
     power surges in the telephone line, while the codec           - Communication and Network
     provides analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog                Riser (CNR) Cards
     conversion. Traditional direct access arrangement             - Modem on Motherboard
     implementations contain numerous discrete components to       - Mini PCI cards
     provide functionality comparable to that which we provide     - Fax machines
     in a single chipset. This family of products includes         - Handheld organizers
     offerings to support different computer interface             - Set-top boxes
     standards. Some versions of this chipset are programmable     - Video conferencing systems
     for differing international telephone standards, which        - Speaker phones
     enables manufacturers to distribute their products globally   - PBXs
     without costly country-specific design modifications. A       - Voice recognition systems
     complementary voice codec product can be combined with our    - Web telephony products
     DAA to support speakerphone applications.

ISOmodem(TM) Embedded Modems
     The ISOmodem combines an analog modem with a silicon DAA,     - Set-top boxes
     resulting in a complete modem implemented in a very small     - Digital cable boxes
     form factor. The ISOmodem products are designed for           - Credit card verification
     embedded modem applications, which are typically found        - Industrial power meters
     outside of the personal computer area. The ISOmodem           - Postage meters
     contains a programmable line interface that meets global      - Security systems
     telephone line requirements, allowing manufacturers to        - Remote medical monitoring
     implement a single modem design world-wide. The ISOmodem      - Japan L-mode phone
     family includes embedded modem solutions for speeds           - Personal video recorders
     ranging from 2400 bps to 56Kbps, suitable for a wide          - Point of sale (POS)
     range of applications.                                          terminals

ProSLIC(R) Subscriber Line Interface Circuits
     The ProSLIC provides the analog telephone interface on        - Telephone switchboard systems
     the source end of the telephone which generates dial          - Cable telephony
     tone, busy tone, caller ID and ring signal. Telephone         - Wireless local loop providing
     source end electronics have historically been at the            remote access for a wireline
     telephone company central office, but recently have been        system
     migrating to the customer premises for voice over             - Voice over Internet protocol
     internet protocol (VOIP) systems. Our ProSLIC product         - Voice over cable or digital
     family has offerings for short-haul applications suitable       subscriber lines
     for the customer premises as well as long-haul                - Digital broadband to analog
     applications suitable for the traditional telephone             telephone adapters
     company central office. This family includes a dual
     ProSLIC that provides for higher port density and lower
     cost per phone line. The dual ProSLIC is in the early
     stages of customer adoption and is not yet being produced
     in volume.

DSL Analog Front End
     The DSL Analog Front End, or AFE, is designed to provide      - Personal computer modems
     the connectivity functions for business or residential        - External modems
     asymmetric digital subscriber line, or ADSL, connection       - Residential gateways
     at the user end in customer premises equipment. Such a        - Network interface devices
     connection addresses the business and residential demand
     for DSL broadband higher capacity connectivity as
     compared to traditional standard dial-up analog phone
     line transmission speeds. The DSL AFE supports several
     ADSL communication standards enabling various upload and
     download data rates.  When combined with our DAA products
     for analog phone line connectivity, our combined product
     offering provides a single modem design to address both
     the prevalent analog modem and the emerging ADSL
     services. The ability to dial up the analog phone line in
     order to provision the ADSL connection or run remote
     diagnostics can assist in the implementation and
     maintenance of this ADSL broadband connection. This
     product is in the late stages of customer evaluation and
     is not yet being produced in volume.
</Table>

                                        5
<Page>

<Table>
<S>                                                              <C>
OPTICAL NETWORKING PRODUCTS

SiPHY(TM) Optical Physical Layer Transceivers
     We offer a family of high-speed physical layer ICs that       - Optical port cards for SONET
     meet the high-speed fiber Synchronous Optical Network, or     - SONET/SDH/ATM routers
     SONET, specifications. The transceiver operates at a rate     - SONET/SDH test equipment
     of 2.5 GHz transmission speed commonly referred to as         - Optical transponder modules
     OC-48 and 10 GHz speed commonly referred to as OC-192. A      - Add/drop multiplexers
     transceiver provides both the transmit and receive            - SONET/SDH regenerators
     function in the physical layer. In addition to the            - Digital cross connects
     transceiver products, we offer a stand-alone transmitter      - Board-level serial links
     and stand-alone receiver product. We also offer a family
     of clock and data recovery chips to provide specific
     functions at multiple speeds up to the OC-48 rate. This
     IC family utilizes our proprietary digital signal
     processing technology to reduce the device's sensitivity
     to board-level noise and improve performance. This
     product is still in the early stages of customer adoption
     and has produced small amounts of revenue in certain
     product configurations.

Precision Clocks Integrated Circuits
     This precision clock product family includes various          - Optical port cards for SONET
     products ranging from general purpose clock multiplier        - SONET/SDH test equipment
     products up to high performance multi-port, redundant,        - SONET/SDH/ATM switches
     multiple frequency range clock multipliers and                - SONET/SDH/ATM routers
     regenerators. SONET optical network systems operate in a      - Optical transponder modules
     synchronous manner requiring very high precision clock
     sources. Our knowledge gained in developing the physical
     layer transceiver subsections provided us the technology
     to offer these highly precise clock products.
     Traditionally, these clock sources have been performed
     by expensive, bulky modules, complicated discrete
     implementations requiring numerous components or current
     incomplete IC offerings needing supplemental corrective
     circuitry in order to meet specifications. As the
     optical network market makes a transition from OC-48
     transmission speeds to OC-192 speeds, the need for
     precision clock sources throughout the synchronous
     optical network becomes a key design feature for our
     customers. This product is still in the early stages of
     customer adoption and has produced small amounts of
     revenue in certain product configurations.
</Table>

   During fiscal 2002, sales of our wireline products and wireless products
accounted for 54% and 46% of our revenues, respectively. During fiscal 2001,
sales of our wireline products and wireless products accounted for 74% and 25%
of our revenues, respectively. During fiscal 2000, sales of our wireline
products accounted for 95% of our revenues.

CUSTOMERS, SALES AND MARKETING

   We market our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and other
providers of applications in the wireless, wireline and optical networking
communications markets through our direct sales staff, a network of independent
sales representatives, and electronics distributors. Direct and distributor
customers buy on an individual purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to
long-term agreements. Two of our distributors, Uniquest and Edom Technology,
each selling to multiple end customers in Asia, represented 20% and 16% of our
fiscal 2002 revenues, respectively. Distributors are not considered end
customers, but rather serve as a sales channel to our end customers. No other
distributor accounted for 10% or more of revenues for fiscal 2002.

   During fiscal 2002, our ten largest end customers accounted for 67% of our
revenues. We had one end customer, Samsung, which represented 16% of our
revenues. No other single end customer accounted for more than 10% of our


                                        6
<Page>

revenues. The following is a list of our largest end customers that purchased
our products in fiscal 2002 for inclusion in products or devices offered to
their customers:

- Agere Systems     - PC-TEL       - Sony                  - Wavecom
- Ambit             - Samsung      - Texas Instruments
- Echostar          - Smart Link   - Thomson

   We maintain five sales offices in North America and provide European sales
support through our United Kingdom subsidiary. The Asia Pacific area is
supported through our Japanese and Hong Kong subsidiaries as well as a branch
sales office in Taiwan. Our direct sales force includes regional sales managers
in the field and area business managers at our headquarters to further support
customer communications. Many of these managers have engineering degrees. We
maintain a dedicated website for our field sales organization, which includes
technical documentation, backlog information, order status, product availability
and new product introduction information to support our communications with that
organization. Additionally, we provide direct communication to all field sales
personnel as part of a structured sales communications program.

   We also utilize independent sales representatives and distributors to
generate sales of our products. We have relationships with many independent
sales representatives and distributors worldwide whom we have selected based on
their understanding of the mixed-signal IC marketplace and their ability to
provide effective field sales applications support for our products. For the
year ended December 28, 2002, sales through these representatives and
distributors accounted for 52% of our sales.

   Our marketing efforts are targeted at both identified industry leaders and
emerging market participants. Direct marketing activities are supplemented by a
focused communications effort that seeks to raise awareness of the company and
our products. Our public relations efforts are focused on leading trade and
business publications. Our external website is used to deliver corporate
information and product information. We also pursue targeted advertising in key
trade publications and we have a cooperative marketing program that allows our
distributors and representatives to promote our products to their local markets
in conjunction with their own advertising activities. Finally we maintain a
presence at strategic trade shows and industry events. These activities, in
combination with direct sales activities, help drive demand for our products.

   Due to the complex and innovative nature of our ICs, we employ experienced
applications engineers who work closely with customers to support the design-win
process, and can significantly accelerate the customer's time required to bring
a product to market. A design-win occurs when a customer has designed our ICs
into its product architecture. A considerable amount of effort to assist the
customer in incorporating our ICs into its products is typically required prior
to any sale. In many cases, our innovative ICs require significantly different
implementations than existing approaches and, therefore, successful
implementations may require extensive communication with potential customers.
The amount of time required to achieve a design-win can vary substantially
depending on a customer's development cycle, which can be relatively short (such
as three months) or very long (such as two years) based on a wide variety of
customer factors. Due to this extensive design-win process, once a completed
design architecture has been implemented and produced in high volumes, our
customers are reluctant to significantly alter their designs. We believe this
process, coupled with our intellectual property protection, promotes relatively
longer product life cycles for our ICs and high barriers to entry for
competitive products, even if such competing products are offered at lower
prices. Finally, our close collaboration with our customers provides us with
knowledge of derivative product ideas or completely new product line offerings
that may not otherwise arise in other new product discussions.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

   Through our research and development efforts, we apply our experienced analog
and mixed-signal engineering talent and expertise to create new ICs that
integrate functions typically performed inefficiently by multiple discrete
components. This integration generally results in lower costs, smaller die
sizes, lower power demands and enhanced price/performance characteristics. We
attempt to reuse successful techniques for integration in new applications where


                                        7
<Page>

similar benefits can be realized. We believe that reliable and precise analog
and mixed-signal ICs can only be developed by teams of engineers that
coordinate their efforts under the direction of senior engineers who have
significant analog experience and are familiar with the intricacies of
designing these ICs for commercial volume production. The development of test
methodologies is a critical activity in releasing a new product for commercial
success. We believe that we have attracted some of the best engineers in our
industry. As of December 28, 2002, we had 128 employees involved in research
and development.

   Research and development expenses were $32.0 million, $29.0 million and $19.4
million in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

TECHNOLOGY

   Our product development process facilitates the design of highly-innovative,
analog-intensive, mixed-signal ICs. Our senior engineers start the product
development process by forming an understanding of our customers' products and
then design alternatives with increased functionality and with decreasing power,
size and cost requirements. Our engineers' deep knowledge of existing and
emerging communications standards and performance requirements help us to assess
the technical feasibility of a particular IC. We target areas where we can
provide compelling product improvements. Once we have solved the primary
challenges, our field engineers continue to work closely with our customers'
design teams to maintain and develop an understanding of our customers' needs,
allowing us to formulate derivative products and refined features.

   In providing mixed-signal ICs for our customers, we believe our key
competitive advantages are: (1) analog CMOS design expertise; (2) digital signal
processing design expertise; and (3) our broad understanding of communication
systems technology and trends. To fully capitalize on these advantages, we have
assembled a world-class development team with exceptional analog and
mixed-signal design expertise led by accomplished senior engineers.

ANALOG CMOS DESIGN EXPERTISE

   We believe that our most significant core competency is our world-class
analog design capability. Additionally, we strive to design all of our ICs in
CMOS processes. There are several modern process technologies for manufacturing
semiconductors including CMOS, Bipolar, BiCMOS, silicon germanium and gallium
arsenide. While it is significantly more difficult to design analog ICs in CMOS,
CMOS provides multiple benefits versus existing alternatives, including
significantly reduced cost, reduced technology risk and greater worldwide
foundry capacity. CMOS is the most commonly used process technology for
manufacturing digital ICs and as a result is most likely to be used for the
manufacturing of ICs with finer line geometries, which enable smaller and faster
ICs. By designing our ICs in CMOS, we enable our products to benefit from this
trend towards finer line geometries, which lowers the cost of the digital
circuitry in our products and allows us to integrate more digital functionality
into our mixed-signal ICs.

   Designing analog ICs is significantly more complicated than designing digital
ICs. While advanced software tools exist to help automate digital IC design,
there are far fewer tools for advanced analog IC design. In many cases, our
analog circuit design efforts begin at the fundamental transistor level. We
believe that we have a demonstrated ability to design the most difficult analog
and RF circuits using standard CMOS technologies. For example, our DAA product
family replaces bulky, discrete modem components, such as transformers, relays
and opto-isolators, with highly integrated CMOS mixed-signal ICs. Similarly,
bulky wireless phone components such as voltage controlled oscillators are
replaced by our integrated CMOS frequency synthesizer products. Our design
expertise in the technically challenging optical networking market has allowed
us to reduce the number of supplemental components used in our customers'
products while providing lower levels of noise in the circuit operation. This is
a key technical consideration in high speed optical networks.

DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING DESIGN EXPERTISE

   We consider the partitioning of a circuit's functionality to be a proprietary
and creative design technique. Our digital signal processing design expertise
maximizes the price/performance characteristics of both the analog and digital
functions and allows our ICs to work in an optimized manner to accomplish
particular tasks. Generally, we surround core analog circuitry with inexpensive
digital CMOS transistors, which allows our ICs to perform the required analog


                                        8
<Page>

functions with increased digital capabilities. For example, our ProSLIC product
is designed to function more efficiently than traditional products for the
source end of the telephone line, which involve a two chip combination
requiring more board space and numerous external components. The ProSLIC
product is partitioned by combining a core analog design that provides
analog-to-digital conversion and digital-to-analog conversion with optimized
digital signal processing functions such as data compression, data expansion,
filtering and tone generation. In this manner, we can isolate the higher
voltage required to ring a telephone in low-cost, off-chip high voltage
transistors or a small, complementary high voltage chip, thereby enabling us to
fulfill the remaining core functions with a single CMOS chip. As a further
example, our SiPHY Optical Physical Layer Transceivers utilize an
architecturally advanced phase locked loop circuit based principally on digital
signal processing. By performing a significant portion of this function in the
digital domain in a monolithic chip, the circuit has been able to satisfy the
demanding specifications of the optical network SONET standard using
inexpensive CMOS transistors.

UNDERSTANDING OF COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY AND TRENDS

   Our focused expertise in communications ICs is the result of the breadth of
engineering talent we have assembled with experience working in
analog-intensive, mixed-signal CMOS design for communications applications. This
expertise, which we consider a competitive advantage, is the foundation of our
in-depth understanding of the technology and trends that impact communications
systems and markets. We believe we have a rare ability to predict product
evolution and design compelling ICs for communications manufacturers. Our
expertise spans from single line plain old telephone service (POTS) to high
speed SONET-based optical networks. We have also expanded our knowledge base
into wireless communications. Our understanding of the role of analog/digital
interfaces within communications systems and the key domestic and international
telecommunications standards that must be supported are particular areas of our
expertise.

MANUFACTURING

   As a fabless IC manufacturer, we conduct IC design and development in our
facilities in the United States and electronically transfer our proprietary IC
designs to third-party semiconductor fabricators who process silicon wafers to
produce the ICs that we design. Our IC designs use industry-standard CMOS
manufacturing process technology to achieve a level of performance normally
associated with more expensive special-purpose IC fabrication technology. We
believe the use of CMOS technology facilitates the rapid production of our ICs
within a lower cost framework. Our IC production employs submicron process
geometries which are readily available from leading foundry suppliers worldwide,
thus ensuring the availability of manufacturing capacity over our products' life
cycles. We currently rely principally on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.
(TSMC) to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor wafers. We believe
that our fabless manufacturing model significantly reduces our capital
requirements and allows us to focus our resources on design, development and
marketing of our ICs.

   Once the silicon wafers have been produced, they are shipped directly to our
third-party assembly subcontractors. The assembled ICs are then forwarded for
final testing, either to our facilities in Austin, Texas or to our third-party
test subcontractors, prior to shipping to our customers. We have increasingly
utilized offshore third-party test subcontractors, typically in Asia where the
parts are assembled and where the products are frequently delivered to our
customers. We expect this trend toward utilization of offshore third-party test
subcontractors to continue.

BACKLOG

   Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for
delivery of products, with such purchase orders officially acknowledged by us
according to our own terms and conditions. Because industry practice allows
customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice to us prior to
shipment, we believe that backlog as of any particular date is not always a
reliable indicator of our future revenue levels.

                                        9
<Page>

COMPETITION

   The markets for semiconductors generally, and for analog and mixed-signal ICs
in particular, are intensely competitive. We believe the principal competitive
factors in our industry are:

- Level of integration;                   - Intellectual property;
- Product capabilities;                   - Customer support;
- Reliability;                            - Reputation; and
- Price;                                  - Ability to rapidly introduce new
- Performance;                              products to market.

   We believe that we are competitive with respect to these factors,
particularly because our ICs typically are smaller in size, are highly
integrated, achieve high performance specifications at lower price points than
competitive products and are manufactured in standard CMOS which generally
enables us to supply them on a relatively rapid basis to customers to meet their
product introduction schedules. However, disadvantages we face include our
relatively short operating history in certain of our markets and the need for
customers to redesign their products and modify their software to implement our
ICs in their products.

   We anticipate that the market for our products will continually evolve and
will be subject to rapid technological change. In addition, as we target and
supply products to numerous communications markets and applications, we face
competition from a relatively large number of competitors. Across our product
offerings, we compete with Agere Systems, AMCC, Analog Devices, Broadcom,
Conexant, Cypress, ESS, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Infineon Technologies, Legerity, Maxim
Integrated Products, National Semiconductor, Philips, RF Micro Devices, Semtech,
Skyworks Solutions (the company resulting from the combination of Conexant's
wireless business and Alpha Industries), Texas Instruments, Vitesse
Semiconductor, and others. We expect to face competition in the future from our
current competitors, other manufacturers and designers of semiconductors, and
innovative start-up semiconductor design companies. Our competitors may also
offer bundled chipset kit arrangements offering a more complete product, which
may negatively impact our competitive position despite the technical merits or
advantages of our products. In addition, our customers could develop products or
technologies internally that would replace their need for our products and would
become a source of competition. As the markets for communications products grow,
we also may face competition from traditional communications device companies.
These companies may enter the mixed-signal semiconductor market by introducing
their own products, including components within their products that would
eliminate the need for our ICs, or by entering into strategic relationships with
or acquiring other existing IC providers.

   Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating
histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases,
complementary product offerings, and significantly greater financial, sales and
marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us.
Current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial
and strategic relationships between themselves or with our existing or potential
customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that
new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire
significant market share.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

   Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. We seek
to protect our technology through a combination of patents, copyrights, trade
secrets, trademarks and confidentiality procedures. As of December 28, 2002, we
had been granted 63 United States patents in the IC field. We also have filed 98
applications for additional United States patents covering our proprietary
technology. We also frequently file for patent protection in a variety of
international jurisdictions with respect to the proprietary technology covered
by our U.S. patents and patent applications. There can be no assurance that
patents will ever be issued with respect to these applications. Furthermore, it
is possible that any patents held by us may be invalidated, circumvented,
challenged or licensed to others. In addition, there can be no assurance that
such patents will provide us with competitive advantages or adequately safeguard
our proprietary rights. The patents and patent applications described above will
expire at various times in the distant future.

                                       10
<Page>

   In addition, we claim copyright protection for proprietary documentation used
in our products. We have filed for registration, or are in the process of filing
for registration, of the visual image of each IC that we have manufactured in
commercial quantities with the United States Copyright Office. We have
registered the "Silicon Laboratories" logo and a variety of other product and
product family names as trademarks in the United States. All other trademarks,
service marks or trade names appearing in this report are the property of their
respective owners. We also attempt to protect our trade secrets and other
proprietary information through agreements with our customers, suppliers,
employees and consultants, and through other customary security measures. We
intend to protect our rights vigorously, but there can be no assurance that our
efforts will be successful. In addition, the laws of other countries in which
our products are sold may not protect our products and intellectual property
rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.

   While our ability to effectively compete depends in large part on our ability
to protect our intellectual property, we believe that our technical expertise
and ability to introduce new products in a timely manner will be an important
factor in maintaining our competitive position.

   Many participants in the semiconductor and communications industries have a
significant number of patents and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to
commence litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual
property infringement. From time to time, third parties may assert infringement
claims against us. We may not prevail in any such litigation or may not be able
to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially
reasonable terms, if at all. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, is likely to
result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources, including our
management's time. Any such litigation could materially adversely affect us. For
further information regarding patent litigation, please see "Part I, Item 3.
Legal Proceedings." Our licenses include industry standard licenses with our
vendors, such as wafer fabrication tool libraries, third party core libraries,
computer-aided design applications and business software applications.

EMPLOYEES

   As of December 28, 2002, we employed 364 people, including 106 in
manufacturing, 128 in research and development, 75 in marketing, 31 in sales and
24 in administration. Our success depends on the continued service of our key
technical and senior management personnel and on our ability to continue to
attract, retain and motivate highly skilled analog and mixed-signal engineers.
The competition for such personnel is intense. We have never had a work stoppage
and none of our employees are represented by a labor organization. We consider
our employee relations to be good.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

   Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on
the storage, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in
the semiconductor industry. Our compliance with these laws and regulations has
not had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.

FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS

RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR HISTORICAL GROWTH RATE AND MAY EXPERIENCE
SIGNIFICANT PERIOD-TO-PERIOD FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS,
WHICH MAY RESULT IN VOLATILITY IN OUR STOCK PRICE

   Although we have experienced revenue and earnings growth in our three most
recent quarterly periods, we may not be able to sustain these growth rates. We
may also experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues
and operating results in the future due to a number of factors, and any such
variations may cause our stock price to fluctuate. It is likely that in some
future period our operating results will be below the expectations of public
market analysts or investors. If this occurs, our stock price may drop, perhaps
significantly.

                                       11
<Page>

   A number of factors, in addition to those cited in other risk factors
applicable to our business, may contribute to fluctuations in our revenues and
operating results, including:

   -  the timing and volume of orders received from our customers;

   -  the rate of acceptance of our products by our customers, including the
      acceptance of new products we may develop for integration in the products
      manufactured by such customers, which we refer to as "design wins";

   -  the time lag between "design wins" and production orders;

   -  the demand for, and life cycles of, the products incorporating our ICs;

   -  the rate of adoption of mixed-signal ICs in the markets we target;

   -  deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product
      enhancements from us or our competitors or other providers of ICs;

   -  changes in product mix;

   -  the average selling prices for our products could drop suddenly due to
      competitive offerings or competitive predatory pricing; and

   -  the rate at which new markets emerge for products we are currently
      developing or for which our design expertise can be utilized to develop
      products for these new markets.

   The markets for mobile telephones, personal computers, satellite television
set-top boxes and voice over DSL applications are characterized by rapid
fluctuations in demand and seasonality which result in corresponding
fluctuations in the demand for our wireless and wireline products that are
incorporated in such devices. Additionally, the rate of technology acceptance by
our customers results in fluctuating demand for our products as customers are
reluctant to incorporate a new IC into their products until the new IC has
achieved market acceptance. Once a new IC achieves market acceptance, demand for
the new IC can quickly accelerate to a point and then level off such that rapid
historical growth in sales of a product should not be viewed as indicative of
continued future growth. In addition, demand can quickly decline for a product
when a new IC product is introduced and receives market acceptance. For example,
transceivers that provide some of the functionality provided by our RF
Synthesizers have recently been introduced to market by us and our competitors.
These competing transceivers are likely to result in a rapid decline in our
sales of RF Synthesizers. If our Aero Transceiver does not gain sufficient
market acceptance to offset the anticipated decline in our sales of RF
Synthesizers, our future operating results and growth could be materially
adversely affected. Due to the various factors mentioned above, the results of
any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as an indication
of our future operating performance.

WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR
REVENUES, AND THE LOSS OF, OR A SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION IN ORDERS FROM, ANY KEY
CUSTOMER COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR REVENUES

   The loss of any of our key customers, or a significant reduction in sales to
any one of them, would significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect
our business. During fiscal 2002, our ten largest customers accounted for 67% of
our revenues. We had one customer, Samsung, purchasing primarily through the
distributor Uniquest, which represented 16% of our revenues. No other single
customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during fiscal 2002. Two
distributors, Uniquest and Edom Technology, each selling to multiple customers
in Asia, represented 20% and 16% of our fiscal 2002 revenues, respectively. Most
of the markets for our products are dominated by a small number of potential
customers. Therefore, our operating results in the foreseeable future will
continue to depend on our ability to affect sales to these dominant customers,
as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our
IC products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our ICs
at all, purchase fewer ICs than they did in the past or alter their purchasing
patterns, particularly because:

   -  we do not have any material long-term purchase arrangements with these or
      any of our other customers;

                                       12
<Page>

   -  substantially all of our sales to date have been made on a purchase order
      basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product
      purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty;
      and

   -  some of our customers have sought or are seeking relationships with our
      current or potential competitors which may affect our customers'
      purchasing decisions.

   While we have been the sole supplier of the direct access arrangement, or
DAA, ICs used in many of our customers' soft modem DAA products and have also
been a substantial supplier of synthesizers and transceivers to Samsung and
other major GSM handset manufacturers, we anticipate that our customers will
regularly evaluate alternative sources of supply in the future in order to
diversify their supplier base, which would increase their negotiating leverage
with us and protect their ability to secure these components. We believe that
any expansion of our customers' supplier bases could have an adverse effect on
the prices we are able to charge and volume of product that we are able to
supply to our customers, which would negatively affect our revenues and
operating results.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATING TO PRODUCT CONCENTRATION AND LACK OF REVENUE
DIVERSIFICATION

   We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of
products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large
percentage of our revenues in the near term. Continued market acceptance of
these products, is therefore, critical to our future success. In addition,
substantially all of our products that we have sold include technology related
to one or more of our issued U.S. patents. If these patents are found to be
invalid or unenforceable, our competitors could introduce competitive products
that could reduce both the volume and price per unit of our products. Our
business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could therefore
be adversely affected by:

   -  a decline in demand for any of our more significant products including our
      Aero Transceiver, RF Synthesizer, DAA or ISOmodem;

   -  failure of our products to achieve continued market acceptance;

   -  an improved version of our products being offered by a competitor;

   -  technological change that we are unable to address with our products; and

   -  a failure to release enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis
      and/or the failure of these new products to achieve market acceptance.

   We are particularly dependent on sales of our wireless products, which
constituted almost half of our total revenues in 2002. If the market for GSM
mobile handsets in which these products are incorporated deteriorates, our
operating results would be materially and adversely affected.

OUR INABILITY TO MANAGE GROWTH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
BUSINESS

   In recent periods, we have significantly increased the scope of our
operations and expanded our workforce from 42 employees at January 2, 1999 to
364 employees at December 28, 2002. This growth has placed, and any future
growth of our operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our
management personnel, systems and resources. We anticipate that we will need to
implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems,
procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other
internal management systems. We also expect that we will need to continue to
expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will
require substantial management effort. If we are unable to effectively manage
our expanding operations, our business could be materially and adversely
affected.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP NEW AND ENHANCED PRODUCTS THAT ACHIEVE MARKET
ACCEPTANCE IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND COMPETITIVE POSITION
COULD BE HARMED

   Our future success will depend on our ability to reduce our dependence on a
few products by developing new ICs and product enhancements that achieve market


                                       13
<Page>

acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of
mixed-signal ICs is highly complex, and we occasionally have experienced delays
in completing the development and introduction of new products and product
enhancements. Successful product development and market acceptance of our
products depend on a number of factors, including:

   -  changing requirements of customers within the communications markets;

   -  accurate prediction of market requirements;

   -  timely completion and introduction of new designs;

   -  timely qualification and certification of our ICs for use in our
      customers' products;

   -  commercial acceptance and volume production of the products into which our
      ICs will be incorporated;

   -  availability of foundry, assembly, and test capacity;

   -  achievement of high manufacturing yields;

   -  quality, price, performance, power use and size of our products;

   -  availability, quality, price and performance of competing products and
      technologies;

   -  our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness;

   -  successful development of our relationships with existing and potential
      customers;

   -  changes in technology, industry standards or end-user preferences; and

   -  cooperation of software partners and semiconductor partners to support our
      chips within a system.

   We cannot provide any assurance that products which we recently have
developed or may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. We have
introduced to market or are in development of many ICs. If our recently
introduced or other ICs fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to
develop new products or if these new products fail to achieve market acceptance,
our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be
adversely affected.

OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS ARE FOCUSED ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF NEW
TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS, AND ANY DELAY IN THE DEVELOPMENT, OR ABANDONMENT, OF
THESE TECHNOLOGIES OR PRODUCTS BY INDUSTRY PARTICIPANTS, OR THEIR FAILURE TO
ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, COULD COMPROMISE OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION

   Our ICs are used as components in communications devices in various markets.
As a result, we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a large amount of
resources to develop products based on new and emerging technologies and
standards that will be commercially introduced in the future. Research and
development expense in fiscal 2002 was $32.0 million, or 17.6% of revenues,
compared with research and development expense of $29.0 million, or 39.1% of
revenues, in fiscal 2001. A number of large companies in the communications
industry are actively involved in the development of these new technologies and
standards. Should any of these companies delay or abandon their efforts to
develop commercially available products based on new technologies and standards,
our research and development efforts with respect to these technologies and
standards likely would have no appreciable value. In addition, if we do not
correctly anticipate new technologies and standards, or if the products that we
develop based on these new technologies and standards fail to achieve market
acceptance, our competitors may be better able to address market demand than we
would. Furthermore, if markets for these new technologies and standards develop
later than we anticipate, or do not develop at all, demand for our products that
are currently in development would suffer, resulting in lower sales of these
products than we currently anticipate. For example, we have introduced to market
the Aero Transceiver product for use in wireless phones operating on the GSM
standard. The Aero Transceiver is also compatible with the GPRS standard, which
we believe is the emerging data communications protocol for GSM based wireless
phones. We cannot be certain that these standards will not change, thereby


                                       14
<Page>

making our products unsuitable or impractical. Additionally, despite the
published GSM/GPRS specifications, mobile phone network operators may demand
increased performance beyond specifications for this highly competitive market.
In the area of optical networking, our clock and data recovery integrated
circuit operates within stringent specifications for high speed communications
systems known as SONET. Changes to this standard could make our products
uncompetitive or unsuitable to changing system requirements and result in our
inability to sell these products.

WE RELY ON THIRD PARTIES TO MANUFACTURE, ASSEMBLE AND TEST OUR PRODUCTS AND THE
FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR MANUFACTURERS AND
ASSEMBLERS WOULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS

   We do not have our own wafer fab manufacturing facilities. Therefore, we rely
principally on one third-party vendor, TSMC, to manufacture the ICs we design.
We also currently rely principally on two third-party assembly subcontractors,
Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and Amkor, to assemble and package the
silicon chips provided by the wafers for use in final products. Additionally, we
rely on third-party vendors for a portion of the testing requirements of our
products prior to shipping. We also maintain testing facilities in Austin,
Texas. However, we have increasingly utilized offshore third-party test
subcontractors, typically in Asia where the parts are assembled and where the
products are more frequently delivered to our customers. We expect this trend
toward utilization of offshore third-party test subcontractors to continue.

   There are significant risks associated with relying on these third-party
foundries and subcontractors, including:

   -  failure by us, our customers or their end customers to qualify a selected
      supplier;

   -  capacity shortages during periods of high demand;

   -  potential insolvency of the third-party subcontractors;

   -  reduced control over delivery schedules and quality;

   -  limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us;

   -  potential increases in prices;

   -  increased need for international-based supply and logistics management;

   -  their inability to supply or support new or changing packaging
      technologies; and

   -  low test yields.

   We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our
third-party vendors, and, therefore, they are not obligated to perform services
or supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantities,
except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Although we believe
that other semiconductor foundries or assembly subcontractors can adequately
address our needs, we expect that it would take approximately six to twelve
months to transition performance of these services from our current providers to
new providers. Such a transition may also require a qualification process by our
customers or their end customers. We generally place orders for products with
some of our suppliers approximately four months prior to the anticipated
delivery date, with order volumes based on our forecasts of demand from our
customers. Accordingly, if we do not accurately forecast demand for our
products, we may be unable to obtain adequate foundry or assembly capacity from
our third-party foundry and assembly subcontractors to meet our customers'
delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories. On occasion, we
have been unable to adequately respond to unexpected increases in customer
purchase orders, and, therefore, were unable to benefit from this incremental
demand. None of our third-party foundry or assembly subcontractors have provided
assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us within the time
required to meet additional demand for our products.

   Since our inception, substantially all of the silicon wafers for the products
that we have shipped were manufactured either by TSMC or its affiliates. Our
customers typically complete their own qualification process. If we fail to

                                       15
<Page>

properly balance customer demand across the existing semiconductor fabrication
facilities that we utilize or are required by our foundry partners to increase,
or otherwise change the number of fab lines that we utilize for our production,
we might not be able to fulfill demand for our products and may need to divert
our engineering resources away from new product development initiatives to
support the fab line transition, which would adversely affect our operating
results. Additionally, a resulting write off of unusable or excess inventories
would contribute to a decline in earnings.

WE HAVE INCREASED OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES ACTIVITIES SIGNIFICANTLY AND PLAN TO
CONTINUE SUCH EFFORTS, WHICH SUBJECTS US TO ADDITIONAL BUSINESS RISKS INCLUDING
INCREASED LOGISTICAL COMPLEXITY, POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS

   We recently established an additional international subsidiary and have
opened additional sales offices in international markets to expand our
international sales activities in Europe and the Pacific Rim region and intend
to increase our staffing in international sales. The percentage of our revenues
to customers located outside of the United States was 79% in fiscal 2002, 66% in
fiscal 2001 and 21% in fiscal 2000. This percentage increase in the two most
recent years reflects our progress in the areas of product and customer
diversification, as many of our wireless, and increasingly, wireline customers
manufacture and design their products in the Pacific Rim region. Our planned
international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to hire additional
personnel and develop relationships with international distributors. We may not
be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products.
Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including:

   -  increased complexity and costs of managing international operations;

   -  protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition in
      some countries;

   -  multiple, conflicting and changing laws, regulations and tax schemes;

   -  longer sales cycles;

   -  greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection
      periods;

   -  high levels of distributor inventory subject to rights of return to us;

   -  political and economic instability; and

   -  greater difficulty in hiring qualified technical sales and applications
      engineers.

   To date, all of our sales to international customers and purchases of
components from international suppliers have been denominated in U.S. dollars.
As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign
currencies could make our products more expensive for our international
customers to purchase, thus rendering our products less competitive.

OUR CURRENT MANUFACTURERS, ASSEMBLERS, TEST SERVICE PROVIDERS, AND CUSTOMERS ARE
CONCENTRATED IN THE SAME GEOGRAPHIC REGION, WHICH INCREASES THE RISK THAT A
NATURAL DISASTER, LABOR STRIKE, WAR OR POLITICAL UNREST COULD DISRUPT OUR
OPERATIONS OR SALES

   Our current semiconductor wafer manufacturer's foundries are located in the
same region within Taiwan and our assembly and test subcontractors are located
in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers, particularly
mobile telephone manufacturers, are located in the Pacific Rim region. The risk
of earthquakes in Taiwan and the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the
proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. We are not currently
covered by insurance against business disruption caused by earthquakes as such
insurance is not currently available on terms that we believe are commercially
reasonable. Earthquakes, fire, flooding or other natural disasters in Taiwan or
the Pacific Rim region, or political unrest, war, labor strikes or work
stoppages in countries where our semiconductor manufacturer, assemblers and test
subcontractors are located, likely would result in the disruption of our


                                       16
<Page>

foundry, assembly or test capacity. There can be no assurance that such
alternate capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, if at all.

   A natural disaster, labor strike, war or political unrest where our
customers' facilities are located would likely reduce our sales to such
customers. For example, Samsung, our largest customer, is based in South Korea
and represented 16% of our fiscal 2002 revenues. North Korea's recent decision
to withdraw from the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and related geopolitical
maneuverings has created unrest. Such unrest could create economic uncertainty
or instability, could escalate to war or otherwise adversely affect South Korea
and our South Korean customers and reduce our sales to such customers, which
would materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, a
significant portion of the assembly and test for our wireless products occurs in
South Korea. Any disruption resulting from these events could also cause
significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our
manufacturing, assembling or testing from the affected subcontractor to another
third-party vendor.

THE SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING PROCESS IS HIGHLY COMPLEX AND, FROM TIME TO
TIME, MANUFACTURING YIELDS MAY FALL BELOW OUR EXPECTATIONS, WHICH COULD RESULT
IN OUR INABILITY TO SATISFY DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER.

   The manufacture of silicon wafers for our products is a highly complex and
technologically demanding process. Although we work closely with our foundries
to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, our foundries from
time to time have experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.
Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or
contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated
manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance deficiencies. If our foundries
fail to deliver fabricated silicon wafers of satisfactory quality in a timely
manner, we will be unable to meet our customers' demand for our products in a
timely manner, which would adversely affect our operating results and damage our
customer relationships.

OUR PRODUCTS ARE COMPLEX AND MAY REQUIRE MODIFICATIONS TO RESOLVE UNDETECTED
ERRORS WHICH COULD LEAD TO AN INCREASE IN OUR COSTS OR A REDUCTION IN OUR
REVENUES

   Our products are complex and may contain errors when first introduced or as
new versions are released. We rely primarily on our in-house testing personnel
to design test operations and procedures to detect any errors prior to delivery
of our products to our customers. Because our products are manufactured by third
parties, should problems occur in the operation or performance of our ICs, we
may experience delays in meeting key introduction dates or scheduled delivery
dates to our customers. These errors also could cause us to incur significant
re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our
product development efforts and cause significant customer relations and
business reputation problems.

WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL TO MANAGE OUR BUSINESS EFFECTIVELY IN A RAPIDLY
CHANGING MARKET, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN OUR CURRENT PERSONNEL AND HIRE
ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL, OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND SUCCESSFULLY MARKET OUR
PRODUCTS COULD BE HARMED

   We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to
attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing
personnel. Specifically, we believe that our future success is highly dependent
on Navdeep Sooch, our co-founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board, Daniel Artusi, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Jeffrey Scott,
our co-founder and Vice President, and David Welland, our co-founder and Vice
President. There is currently a shortage of qualified personnel with significant
experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of
analog and mixed-signal communications ICs. In particular, there is a shortage
of engineers who are familiar with the intricacies of the design and
manufacturability of analog elements, and competition for such personnel is
intense. Our key technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as
the primary source for our technological and product innovations. We may not be
successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel
to support our anticipated growth. The loss of any of our key employees or the
inability to attract or retain qualified personnel both in the United States and
internationally, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could
delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to
sell, our products.

                                       17
<Page>

WE ARE ENGAGED IN A PATENT LAWSUIT WITH TDK SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION

   In August 2001, TDK Semiconductor Corporation commenced a lawsuit against us
for alleged willful infringement by our DAA products of a TDK-held patent. TDK's
complaint seeks unspecified treble damages, costs and attorneys' fees, and an
injunction. In September 2001, we served and filed an answer to TDK's complaint,
in which we denied the alleged infringement and asserted that their patent is
invalid. On March 27, 2002, we filed an amended answer and counterclaims in
which we claimed that the TDK-held patent is unenforceable due to inequitable
conduct and asserted counterclaims seeking a declaration that the TDK-held
patent is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable. On November 6, 2002, the
court denied our motion for summary judgment, that we did not infringe TDK's
semiconductor patent rights. On January 6, 2003, the court extended discovery
through July 3, 2003, set a final date for all summary judgment motions of
August 4, 2003, and extended the trial date to November 2003. This lawsuit may
involve significant expense and may also divert our management's time and
attention from other aspects of our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties
of litigation, we are unable to predict the outcome of this matter. For further
information regarding this litigation, please see "Part I, Item 3. Legal
Proceedings."

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, WHICH WOULD NEGATIVELY
AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE

   Our products rely on our proprietary technology, and we expect that future
technological advances made by us will be critical to sustain market acceptance
of our products. Therefore, we believe that the protection of our intellectual
property rights is and will continue to be important to the success of our
business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property
rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our
employees, consultants, intellectual property providers, and business partners,
and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other
proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt
to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology. Monitoring
unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that
the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology,
particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary
rights as fully as in the United States. We cannot be certain that patents will
be issued as a result of our pending applications nor can we be certain that any
issued patents would protect or benefit us or give us adequate protection from
competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or
challenged and declared invalid or unenforceable. We also cannot be certain that
others will not develop effective competing technologies on their own.

SIGNIFICANT LITIGATION OVER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IN OUR INDUSTRY MAY CAUSE US
TO BECOME INVOLVED IN COSTLY AND LENGTHY LITIGATION WHICH COULD SERIOUSLY HARM
OUR BUSINESS

   In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States
involving patents and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, we
receive letters from various industry participants alleging infringement of
patents, trademarks or misappropriation of trade secrets. The exploratory nature
of these inquiries has become relatively common in the semiconductor industry.
We typically respond when appropriate and as advised by legal counsel. We have
been involved in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights in the
past and may become involved in such litigation again in the future. In the
future, we may become involved in litigation to defend allegations of
infringement asserted by others, both directly and indirectly as a result of
certain industry-standard indemnities we may offer to our customers. Legal
proceedings could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate
our proprietary rights. Legal proceedings initiated by us to protect our
intellectual property rights could also result in counterclaims or countersuits
against us. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, would likely be time
consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert our management's time and
attention. Any intellectual property litigation also could force us to take
specific actions, including:

   -  cease selling products that use the challenged intellectual property;

   -  obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a right to a
      license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be
      available on reasonable terms, or at all;

                                       18
<Page>

   -  redesign those products that use infringing intellectual property; or

   -  pursue legal remedies with third parties to enforce our indemnification
      rights, which may not adequately protect our interests.

FAILURE TO MANAGE OUR DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL RELATIONSHIPS COULD IMPEDE OUR FUTURE
GROWTH

   The future growth of our business will depend in part on our ability to
manage our relationships with current and future distributors and sales
representatives, develop additional channels for the distribution and sale of
our products and manage these relationships. As we execute our indirect sales
strategy, we will need to manage the potential conflicts that may arise with our
direct sales efforts. For example, conflicts with a distributor may arise when a
customer begins purchasing directly from us rather than through the distributor.
The inability to successfully execute or manage a multi-channel sales strategy
could impede our future growth.

A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF THE FINAL TESTING OF OUR PRODUCTS IS PERFORMED
INTERNALLY BY US, WHICH INCREASES OUR FIXED COSTS

   In fiscal 2001, substantially all of our test operations were performed
in-house. During fiscal 2002, we significantly expanded our internal test
capabilities to support our wireless products. However, during this same period
we also outsourced a portion of test operations to our contract manufacturers or
other third parties. While we expect that performing a substantial portion of
testing in-house provides us with advantages in terms of quality control and
shorter time required to bring a product to market, we may encounter
difficulties and delays in maintaining or expanding our internal test
capabilities. In addition, final testing of complex semiconductors requires
substantial resources to acquire state-of-the-art testing equipment and hiring
additional qualified personnel, which has increased our fixed costs. If demand
for our products does not support the effective utilization of these employees
and additional equipment, we may not realize any benefit from performing the
final testing internally. Any decrease in the demand for our products could
result in the underutilization of our testing equipment and personnel. If our
internal test operations are underused or mismanaged, we may incur significant
costs that could adversely affect our operating results.

OUR CUSTOMERS REQUIRE OUR PRODUCTS TO UNDERGO A LENGTHY AND EXPENSIVE
QUALIFICATION PROCESS WHICH DOES NOT ENSURE PRODUCT SALES

   Prior to purchasing our products, our customers require that our products
undergo an extensive qualification process, which involves testing of the
products in the customer's system as well as rigorous reliability testing. This
qualification process may continue for six months or longer. However,
qualification of a product by a customer does not ensure any sales of the
product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a
product to a customer, a subsequent revision to the IC, changes in its
manufacturing process or the selection of a new supplier by us may require a new
qualification process, which may result in delays and in us holding excess or
obsolete inventory. After our products are qualified, it can take an additional
six months or more before the customer commences volume production of components
or devices that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote
substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and
management efforts, toward qualifying our products with customers in
anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of
our products with a customer, such failure or delay would preclude or delay
sales of such product to the customer, which may impede our growth and cause our
business to suffer.

WE DEPEND ON OUR CUSTOMERS TO SUPPORT OUR PRODUCTS

   Our products are currently used by our customers to produce modems,
telephony equipment, mobile telephones, various wireless devices and optical
networking equipment. We rely on our customers to provide hardware, software,
intellectual property indemnification and other technical support for the
products supplied by our customers. If our customers do not provide the
required functionality or if our customers do not provide satisfactory
support for their products, the demand for these devices that incorporate our
products may diminish or we may otherwise be materially adversely affected.
Any reduction in the demand for these devices would significantly reduce our
revenues.

                                       19
<Page>

WE ARE SUBJECT TO INCREASED INVENTORY RISKS AND COSTS BECAUSE WE BUILD OUR
PRODUCTS BASED ON FORECASTS PROVIDED BY CUSTOMERS BEFORE RECEIVING PURCHASE
ORDERS FOR THE PRODUCTS

   In order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest
customers, we start the manufacturing of our products in advance of receiving
purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. However, these
forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize
sales for these products until they are shipped to the customer. As a result,
we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales.
Because demand for our products may not materialize, manufacturing based on
forecasts subjects us to increased risks of high inventory carrying costs and
increased obsolescence and may increase our operating costs. These inventory
risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract
manufacturers because this causes us to have less visibility regarding the
accumulated levels of inventory for such customers.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO CREDIT RISKS RELATED TO OUR ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, ESPECIALLY
WHEN CUSTOMERS PURCHASE PRODUCTS THROUGH DISTRIBUTORS AND CONTRACT
MANUFACTURERS.

   We do not generally obtain letters of credit or other security for payment
from customers, distributors or contract manufacturers. Accordingly, we are not
protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these entities.
If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable, our operating results could
be materially harmed. A significant and increasing portion of our revenues are
realized through indirect channels such as distributors and contract
manufacturers, with a growing portion being located outside the United States.
At December 28, 2002, gross receivable balances from distributors and contract
manufacturers totaled $20.6 million versus $5.9 million at December 29, 2001.
Typically, distributors and contract manufacturers are dependent on receiving
payment from the ultimate customers for the resources necessary to pay us. None
of our shipments to distributors and contract manufacturers are guaranteed by
the ultimate customer. If for any reason a customer does not pay the distributor
or contract manufacturer, there are no assurances that our direct contractual
customers will have adequate working capital to enable the collection of our
accounts receivable. We continue to monitor the credit worthiness and payment
practice of each of the distributors or contract manufacturers, and to date have
not had any significant write offs of receivable balances from them.

WE COULD SEEK TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE THROUGH THE ISSUANCE OF
EQUITY OR DEBT SECURITIES, BUT ADDITIONAL CAPITAL MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON TERMS
ACCEPTABLE TO US, OR AT ALL.

   We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and bank
credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs, capital
expenditures, investment requirements and commitments for at least the next 12
months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to
finance our activities or to consummate acquisitions of other businesses,
products or technologies. We believe we could raise these funds, if needed, by
selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors. In
addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to
sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other
reasons. However, we may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable
terms, or at all. If we decide to raise additional funds by issuing equity or
convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders
would be reduced.

WE ARE A RELATIVELY SMALL COMPANY WITH LIMITED RESOURCES COMPARED TO SOME OF OUR
CURRENT AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY
AND INCREASE MARKET SHARE

   Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating
histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition and a larger
base of customers than we have. As a result, these competitors may have
greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may
be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater
resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we
can to ours. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have
already established supplier or joint development relationships with the


                                       20
<Page>

decision makers at our current or potential customers. These competitors may be
able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage their customers
from purchasing products from us or persuade them to replace our products with
their products. Our competitors may also offer bundled chipset kit arrangements
offering a more complete product despite the technical merits or advantages of
our products. These competitors may elect not to support our products which
could complicate our sales efforts. These and other competitive pressures may
prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors,
and may materially harm our business. Competition could decrease our prices,
reduce our sales, lower our margins or decrease our market share.

ANY ACQUISITIONS WE MAKE COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS AND HARM OUR FINANCIAL
CONDITION

   As part of our growth strategy, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to
acquire other businesses or technologies that would complement our current
offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical
capabilities. Acquisitions that we may potentially make in the future entail a
number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and
operating results, including:

   -  problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products
      with our existing business and products;

   -  diversion of management's time and attention from our core business;

   -  need for financial resources above our planned investment levels;

   -  difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and
      customers of the acquired company;

   -  risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior experience;

   -  potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and

   -  potential requirement to amortize intangible assets or write off
      in-process research and development and other acquisition-related
      expenses.

   Future acquisitions also could cause us to incur debt or contingent
liabilities or cause us to issue equity securities that could impact the
ownership percentages of existing shareholders.

OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE.

   The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be
volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock may be
significantly affected by the following factors:

   -  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;

   -  changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to
      perform in line with such estimates;

   -  changes in market valuations of other technology companies, particularly
      semiconductor companies;

   -  announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical
      innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or
      capital commitments;

   -  introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need
      for our products;

   -  the loss of one or more key OEM customers; and

   -  departures of key personnel.

   The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been
unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations
may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance.

                                       21
<Page>

PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW COULD PREVENT, DELAY OR
IMPEDE A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF US AND MAY REDUCE THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON
STOCK

   Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the
effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition that a
stockholder may consider favorable. For example, our certificate or
incorporation and bylaws provide for:

   -  the division of our board of directors into three classes to be elected on
      a staggered basis, one class each year;

   -  the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of our preferred
      stock in one or more series without further authorization of our
      stockholders;

   -  a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent;

   -  elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of
      stockholders;

   -  a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder
      nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered
      at any meeting of stockholders; and

   -  a requirement that a supermajority vote be obtained to amend or repeal
      certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.

   We also are subject to the anti-takeover laws of Delaware which may
discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which
may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

THE PERFORMANCE OF OUR NEXT GENERATION DIRECT ACCESS ARRANGEMENT PRODUCTS MAY BE
ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY SEVERE ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS THAT MAY REQUIRE
MODIFICATIONS, WHICH COULD LEAD TO AN INCREASE IN OUR COSTS OR A REDUCTION IN
OUR REVENUES

   Although our DAA products are compliant with published specifications, these
established specifications might not adequately address all conditions that must
be satisfied in order to operate in harsh environments. This includes
environments where there are wide variations in electrical quality, telephone
line quality, static electricity and operating temperatures or that may be
affected by lightning or improper handling by customers and end users. Our next
generation products have had a limited period of time in the field under
operation, and these environmental factors may result in unanticipated returns
of our products. Any necessary modifications could cause us to incur significant
re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our
product development efforts and cause significant customer relations and
business reputation problems.

RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY

COMPETITION WITHIN THE NUMEROUS MARKETS WE TARGET MAY REDUCE SALES OF OUR
PRODUCTS AND REDUCE MARKET SHARE

   The markets for semiconductors in general, and for mixed-signal ICs in
particular, are intensely competitive. We expect that the market for our
products will continually evolve and will be subject to rapid technological
change. In addition, as we target and supply products to numerous markets and
applications, we face competition from a relatively large number of competitors.
Across all of our product areas, we compete with Agere Systems, AMCC, Analog
Devices, Broadcom, Conexant, Cypress, ESS, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Infineon
Technologies, Legerity, Maxim Integrated Products, National Semiconductor,
Philips, RF Micro Devices, Semtech, Skyworks Solutions Inc. (the company
resulting from the combination of Conexant's wireless business and Alpha
Industries), Texas Instruments, Vitesse Semiconductor, and others. We expect to
face competition in the future from our current competitors, other manufacturers
and designers of semiconductors, and innovative start-up semiconductor design
companies. Some of our customers, such as Agere Systems, Intel, Motorola,
Samsung and Texas Instruments, are also large, established semiconductor
suppliers. Our sales to and support of these customers may enable them to become
a source of competition to us, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual
property rights. As the markets for communications products grow, we also may
face competition from traditional communications device companies.

                                       22
<Page>

These companies may enter the mixed-signal semiconductor market by introducing
their own ICs or by entering into strategic relationships with or acquiring
other existing providers of semiconductor products. We anticipate increasing
competitive pressure because sales of our wireless products into the highly
competitive GSM handset market are expected to comprise a larger percentage of
our future revenues.

   In addition, our largest competitors may restructure their operations to
create separate companies that are more focused on providing the types of
products we produce. For example, Conexant is a significant competitor of ours
across multiple product areas. In June 2002, Conexant completed the spin-out of
Skyworks Solutions, resulting from the combination of Conexant's wireless
business with Alpha Industries. In July 2000, Lucent Technologies spun off its
microelectronics business, which included its optoelectronics components and
integrated circuits division, into a separate company named Agere Systems in
order to accelerate the growth of the business and alleviate strategic conflicts
with Lucent's competitors. Additionally, Siemens spun off its semiconductor
business in 1999 to create a more focused company named Infineon Technologies.

THE AVERAGE SELLING PRICES OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD DECREASE RAPIDLY WHICH MAY
NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR GROSS MARGINS AND REVENUES

   We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future
operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. We have
reduced the average unit price of our products in anticipation of future
competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our
competitors and other factors. The highly competitive GSM handset market is
extremely cost sensitive due to the potentially very high volumes and stringent
expectations placed on consumer electronics component suppliers for aggressive
and sustained price reductions which do result in declining average selling
prices. We expect that these factors will create downward pressure on our
average selling prices and gross margins. If we are unable to offset any such
reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, our
gross profits and revenues will suffer. To maintain gross margins, we will need
to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis
and continually reduce our costs. Our failure to do so would cause our revenues
and gross margins to decline.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY, WHICH HAS
BEEN SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT DOWNTURNS

   The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by
constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price
erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in
product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns,
often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both
semiconductor companies' and their customers' products and declines in general
economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished
product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated
erosion of average selling prices. Specific areas of the communications markets
have contributed to the overall decline and volatility of the semiconductor
industry in the recent past. For example, in fiscal 2001, the semiconductor
industry suffered a downturn due to reductions in the actual unit sales of
personal computers and wireless phones as compared to previous robust forecasts.
Additionally, changing and competing technical standards in airwave interfaces
such as GSM and CDMA for mobile handsets, migration to higher speed
communication protocols in the optical space and the return to prominence of the
traditional bell regional operating companies compared to the competitive local
exchange companies all have contributed to the volatility in the communications
area of the semiconductor industry. This downturn resulted in a material adverse
effect on our business and operating results in fiscal 2001.

   Due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, an upturn in
business could result in increased competition for access to third-party
foundry, assembly and test capacity. We are dependent on the availability of
such capacity to manufacture, assemble and test our ICs. None of our third-party
foundry, assembly or test subcontractors have provided assurances that adequate
capacity will be available to us.

                                       23
<Page>

OUR PRODUCTS MUST CONFORM TO INDUSTRY STANDARDS IN ORDER TO BE ACCEPTED BY END
USERS IN OUR MARKETS

   Generally, our products comprise only a part of a communications device. All
components of such devices must uniformly comply with industry standards in
order to operate efficiently together. We depend on companies that provide other
components of the devices to support prevailing industry standards. Many of
these companies are significantly larger and more influential in affecting
industry standards than we are. Some industry standards may not be widely
adopted or implemented uniformly, and competing standards may emerge that may be
preferred by our customers or end users. If larger companies do not support the
same industry standards that we do, or if competing standards emerge, market
acceptance of our products could be adversely affected which would harm our
business.

   Products for communications applications are based on industry standards that
are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on
our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry
standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products
incompatible with products developed by other suppliers. As a result, we could
be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant
expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards.
If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a
significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial
design wins. We may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or
in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market
acceptance. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances may require
substantial time and expense.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

   Our Internet website address is http://www.silabs.com. Our annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available through our Internet
website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the
information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be
incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
