Item 1.  Business

GENERAL

    Silicon Laboratories Inc. designs, manufactures and markets proprietary
high-performance mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for the wireless,
wireline and optical communications industries. Mixed-signal ICs are electronic
components that convert real-world analog signals, such as sound and radio
waves, into digital signals that electronic products can process. Therefore,
mixed-signal ICs are critical components of numerous communications products,
including wireless phones, cable and satellite set-top boxes, modems and fax
machines. To develop our business rapidly, we initially focused our efforts on
developing ICs for the personal computer modem market. We are now applying our
mixed-signal and communications expertise to the development of ICs for other
high growth communications devices such as wireless telephones and optical
network applications. Our world-class, mixed-signal design engineers use
standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, technology to create
innovative ICs that can dramatically reduce the cost, size and system power
requirements of devices that our customers sell to their end-user customers. Our
expertise in analog CMOS and mixed-signal IC design allows us to develop new and
innovative products rapidly, which enables our customers to improve their
time-to-market with end products that respond to consumer demand in the
communications industry.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

    According to Dataquest, the overall worldwide analog and mixed-signal IC
market, which includes as a subset the mixed-signal communications IC markets


                                       1
<PAGE>


that we target, surpassed $21.2 billion in 1998 and is expected to grow to more
than $39.1 billion by 2003. This growth is being driven in part by the demand
for communications services, which has increased at a rapid rate in recent
years due to a number of factors, including the growth of Internet usage,
development of new communications technologies, availability of improved
communications services at lower costs, broad deployment of optical networks
and remote access requirements for corporate networks. This demand has fueled
tremendous growth in the number of wireless and wireline communications devices
and optical networking applications. For example, in wireless markets, the
demand for wireless phones and other wireless devices, such as pagers and
personal digital assistants, has grown rapidly as digital wireless services
have become increasingly popular and affordable. In wireline markets, demand
has increased for communications capabilities in a wide range of products,
including personal computers, cable and satellite set-top boxes, fax machines,
credit card verification machines, automated teller machines and remote gaming
systems. The demand for greater and faster Internet access by households and
businesses has increased the need to significantly upgrade the communications
backbone to handle this traffic, increasing the need for smaller, faster and
better performing optical networking systems that route this traffic.

    Digital communications devices typically require mixed-signal circuits
that provide analog-to-digital functionality to access the communications
networks to which they are connected. Traditional designs for communications
devices have used mixed-signal circuits built with numerous discrete analog
and digital components. While these traditional designs provide the required
functionality, they can be inefficient and inadequate for use in markets
where size, price and performance are increasingly important product
differentiators. In order to improve their competitive position,
communications device manufacturers need advanced mixed-signal ICs that
reduce the number of discrete components and required board space to create
smaller products with improved price/performance characteristics.
Additionally, these manufacturers require programmable ICs that can be
reconfigured to comply with numerous and constantly evolving international
communications standards without altering the fundamental design of a product.

    Manufacturers of communications devices face accelerating time-to-market
demands and must adapt to evolving industry standards and new technologies.
Because analog-intensive, mixed-signal IC design expertise is difficult to
find, these manufacturers increasingly are turning to third parties to
provide advanced mixed-signal ICs. Designing the analog component of a
mixed-signal IC involves great complexity and difficulty, because the
performance of an analog IC depends on the creative analog expertise of
engineers to optimize speed, power, amplitude and resolution within the
constraints of standard manufacturing processes. The development of analog
design expertise typically requires years of practical analog design
experience under the guidance of a senior engineer, and engineers with the
required level of skill and expertise are in short supply.

    Many third-party IC providers lack sufficient analog expertise to develop
compelling mixed-signal ICs. As a result, manufacturers of communications
devices are often faced with inadequate mixed-signal ICs and are challenged
to find third-party providers that can supply them with mixed-signal ICs with
greater functionality, smaller size and lower power requirements all at a
reduced cost and time-to-market.

PRODUCTS

    We provide mixed-signal ICs for use in wireline, wireless and optical
communication applications. Our products integrate the numerous discrete
components required by most existing mixed-signal circuits for communications
devices into single chips or chipsets. By doing so, we are able to create
products that:

    - require less board space;

    - can offer superior performance;

    - provide increased reliability;

    - reduce system power requirements; and

    - reduce costs.

                                      2
<PAGE>


Wireline Products

    Many of our wireline products are designed for use in analog modems, which
enable the transmission of digital data signals over wireline telephone networks
and are used in the vast majority of Internet connections. Three fundamental
components of the modem provide the requisite functionality: software
algorithms; a direct access arrangement, or DAA; and an analog/digital
converter, or codec. Complex software algorithms mitigate the impairments found
in the telephone network, such as noise interference and echoes. Since telephone
lines fundamentally transmit analog signals and computers use digital
transmissions, modems require analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog
converters, or coders/decoders, that are referred to as codecs. A modem
transmits analog signals from a codec to the telephone line through a DAA. We
offer a variety of modem products which include the DAA and codec functions and
which are software programmable to meet international regulatory specifications.

    Digital Subscriber Lines, DSL, are increasing their presence in the wireline
marketplace. It is our belief that DSL Modem Cards for personal computers will
have back-up standard traditional 56 kilobyte per second analog modem
capability. Our existing DAA is suitable for these backup applications. We
intend to introduce an analog front end product for a segment of the DSL market
over the next 12 months.

-   DAA FUNCTIONS. Government regulation requires electrical isolation between
    the telephone line and the local electrical power system. Isolation is
    required for safety, sound quality, and to prevent harm to the telephone
    network from electrical surges. With the introduction of telecommunications
    deregulation, consumers were allowed to connect directly to the telephone
    network. However, they were required to use a device that met FCC part 68
    specifications, which govern all electronic products sold in the United
    States intended for connection to the telephone network. Traditional DAA
    products met FCC requirements, but were designed inefficiently and contained
    a variety of discrete components. Our silicon DAA is the first to integrate
    the bulky transformer, relays, and opto-isolators traditionally found in a
    modem's isolation circuitry, and achieve FCC part 68 compliance. Our silicon
    DAA may be used with digital signal processors, or DSPs, currently used in
    traditional analog modems. We were able to design our product in CMOS,
    creating a silicon DAA with attractive process characteristics for our
    customers. Our DAA products are lower in cost, use substantially less board
    space than alternative products and are programmable to meet international
    standards.

-    CODEC FUNCTIONS. Traditionally, analog modems included specialized hardware
     chips known as a digital signal processor, or DSP, which contained the
     modem's software algorithms. The DSP is typically the most expensive
     hardware component in traditional analog modems. In an effort to reduce
     costs and as a result of capabilities offered by more powerful
     microprocessors introduced during the mid-1990's, a new generation of
     modems, known as soft modems, evolved. When soft modems are used, the main
     microprocessor in a personal computer runs the software algorithms required
     to operate a modem, thus eliminating the need for a DSP chip. The software
     modem's digital interface between the codec and the personal computer in a
     soft modem eliminates the need for additional interface chips.

    We also design innovative products for network access applications. In
January 2000, we announced the ProSLIC, our first product targeting this market.

-    SUBSCRIBER LINE INTERFACE CIRCUIT, OR SLIC. Subscriber line interface
     circuits, or SLICs, provide the analog telephone interface on the source
     end of the telephone line. The primary functions of a SLIC are to ring and
     provide power and signaling (such as caller ID, dial tone and busy tone) to
     the telephone. Traditionally, SLICs have been produced with an expensive
     high voltage IC accompanied by a CMOS codec IC and requiring as many as
     five voltage sources. Our ProSLIC has been designed as one integrated CMOS
     chip, eliminating the need for a high voltage IC and requiring only two
     voltage sources. The result is a smaller, more reliable and less expensive
     product.

                                       3
<PAGE>


    The following table summarizes the ICs for the wireline market that we
currently offer to customers:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       WIRELINE PRODUCTS

PRODUCT AREA                            DESCRIPTION                                      APPLICATIONS
<S>               <C>                                                                    <C>
Digital Interface Silicon Direct Access Arrangement (DAA) Provides both the
                  functionality of a DAA and a codec. A DAA provides electrical          - personal computer modems
                  isolation between a wireline device, such as a modem,                  - Audio Modem Riser Cards
                  and the telephone line to guard against power surges in                - Mobile Daughter Cards
                  the telephone line, while codec provides analog-to-digital             - Communication and Network
                  and digital-to-analog conversion. Traditional DAA products               Riser (CNR) Cards
                  contain as many as 35 discrete components to provide                   - Modem on Motherboard
                  functionality comparable to that which we provide in a                 - Mini PCI cards
                  single chipset. Some versions of this chipset are                      - fax machines
                  programmable for differing international telephone                     - host modems
                  standards, which enables manufacturers to distribute their             - handheld organizers
                  products globally without costly country-specific design               - set-top boxes
                  modifications. The most recent addition to this product                - embedded modems
                  family, the DAA for the Communication and Net-working Riser
                  (CNR) provides the same functionality as the International
                  chipset, but eases integration and simplifies modem design.

Analog Interface Silicon DAA
                  Provides the same functionality as the digital international DAA,      - personal computer modems
                  but with an analog interface. Ideal for applications requiring         - fax machines
                  client premises equipment such as high speed analog modems             - host modems
                  connecting to the Public Switched Telephone Network. Provides an       - embedded modems
                  analog interface with different transmit and receive inputs/outputs    - PBXs
                  for easy connection to many widely available codecs and modem          - answering machines
                  chipsets.

Voice Codec       Encodes analog signals within the voice frequency range into           - data/fax/voice modems
                  digital signals and decodes digital voice signals back into analog     - speaker phones
                  signals. When combined with the DAA chipset, the Voice Codec           - fax machines
                  permits voice communications to be digitized and carried               - voice recognition system
                  simultaneously with data traffic.                                      - Web telephony products
                                                                                         - video conferencing systems

ISOmodem          The ISOmodem is a miniaturized modem that uses our DAA                 - set-top boxes
                  technology and operates at a speed of up to 2400 bits per              - credit card verification
                  second. The systems ISOmodem is designed to provide quick                systems
                  network access for devices with limited data transmission              - industrial power meters
                  requirements. For such devices, a low access transmission speed        - pay-per-view systems
                  of 2400 bits per second is generally sufficient to sustain             - postage meters
                  performance while also providing rapid connect times. The              - pay phones
                  ISOmodem contains a programmable line interface that meets             - smart vending machines
                  global telephone line requirements.                                    - security systems
                                                                                         - remote medical monitoring

ProSLIC           The ProSLIC provides the analog telephone interface on the             - telephone switchboard systems
                  source end of the telephone which provides dial tone, busy             - cable telephony
                  tone, caller ID and ring signal. Telephone source end                  - wireless local loop providing remote
                  electronics have historically been at the telephone company              access for a wireline system
                  central office and has been migrating to the customer                  - voice over Internet protocol
                  premises. Our ProSLIC product is currently designed for                - digital broadband to analog
                  short-haul applications suitable for the customer premises.              telephone adapters
                                                                                         - voice over digital subscriber lines
</TABLE>
                                           4
<PAGE>


WIRELESS PRODUCTS

    A variety of mobile communications standards are employed around the world.
The most popular standard used today is the Global System for Mobile
Communications, or GSM, standard, which was first deployed in Europe and is now
available in several countries throughout the world. Manufacturers continue to
introduce new wireless phone models that offer smaller form factors and longer
battery life at lower costs. These market dynamics drive a need for new,
highly-integrated electronics that reduce component count and consume less
power. Our products are designed to serve this need.

    We are developing and intend to introduce other components of the radio
frequency, or RF, section of the wireless handset such as the transceiver. We
anticipate that these products will provide the same advantages as the first
critical building block we designed for the RF section, the synthesizer, by
offering smaller form factors at reduced costs.

    The following table summarizes the ICs for the wireless market that we
currently offer to customers:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            WIRELESS PRODUCTS

PRODUCT AREA                             DESCRIPTION                                     APPLICATIONS
<S>               <C>                                                                    <C>
RF Synthesizer for General Application
                  A frequency synthesizer generates high frequency                       - wireless local area networking
                  signals that are used in wireless communications                       - wireless modems
                  systems to select a particular radio channel. Existing                 - wireless meter readers
                  frequency synthesizers contain discrete voltage control                - handheld point-of-sale terminals
                  modules and as many as 30 discrete electronic components to
                  provide functionality comparable to what we provide in a
                  monolithic IC. Our general purpose synthesizer can be
                  programmed to address multiple wireless communications
                  applications.

RF Synthesizer for GSM/GPRS
                  Provides the same functionality as the RF Synthesizer for              - GSM wireless phones
                  General Application but has been optimized for wireless                - GPRS data communications devices
                  phones operating on the GSM standard. This synthesizer
                  is capable of providing dual-band synthesis to use one or
                  both of the separate radio bands available to GSM phones.
                  Additionally, this synthesizer has very fast settling times,
                  allowing the phone to quickly lock to a desired channel.
                  This RF synthesizer is compatible with General Packet
                  Radio Service, or GPRS standard, which is the data
                  communications protocol employed by the GSM standard. GPRS
                  brings wireless Internet access to GSM users through data
                  transfer and signaling over GSM radio networks.

RF Synthesizer for ISM Applications
                  Provides the same functionality as the RF Synthesizer for              - Wireless modems
                  General Application but has been optimized for Industrial              - Cordless phones
                  Scientific Medical (ISM) band applications that operate in             - Wireless headsets
                  the 2.0 to 2.6 GHz range. This is used for price-sensitive,            - Security systems
                  low-power, high-performing personal wireless communications            - Wireless LAN and WAN
                  applications.

RF Synthesizer for Third Generation (3G) Applications
                  Provides the same functionality as the RF Synthesizer for              - 3G wireless communications
                  General Application but addresses the high performance                 - W-CDMA mobile handsets
                  requirements for Wideband Code Division Multiple Access                - High speed wireless data terminals
                  (W-CDMA) applications.                                                 - Broadband wireless communications
</TABLE>

                                      5
<PAGE>

OPTICAL NETWORKING PRODUCTS

    The increasing popularity of the Internet has fueled an explosive demand for
bandwidth in the wide area network (WAN). This rapidly growing fiber-optic
communications market is quite large and still developing. This market fits our
target market criteria because we believe it is a large growing market, requires
significant intellectual property using mixed-signal expertise, offers long
product life-cycles and involves technology that complements our wireline and
wireless divisions. With our entry into fiber-optic communications, we are able
to offer a comprehensive portfolio of products that provide the required
interfaces between the analog world and the digital domain in communications
systems. Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) is the predominant standard for
transmitting high-speed data over the fiber optic network and specifications
within this standard are extremely demanding. This new division will focus on
developing a family of high-speed physical layer ICs that are a part of the
high-speed SONET.

    The first product developed, the Clock and Data Recovery (CDR)IC, is one of
the key building blocks and one of the more difficult ICs to design in the
physical layer of the optical network. From this product, we intend to fill out
our physical layer product line in the optical networking division to include
receivers, transmitters and transceivers at speeds up to OC-192. While initially
our focus will be on filling out the physical layer product line, we intend to
subsequently concentrate on related areas leveraging this technology.

    The following table summarizes the ICs for the optical networking market
that we currently offer to customers:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       OPTICAL NETWORKING PRODUCTS

PRODUCT AREA                            DESCRIPTION                                      APPLICATIONS
<S>               <C>                                                                    <C>
Multi-Rate SONET/SDH Clock and Data Recovery IC
                  Recovers timing information and data that is transferred over          - SONET/SDH/ATM routers
                  the telephone optical network up to OC-48 data rates.  This            - Add/drop multiplexers
                  IC utilizes our proprietary digital signal processing technology       - Digital cross connects
                  to reduce the device's sensitivity to board-level noise                - SONET/SDH test equipment
                  and improve performance.                                               - Optical transceiver modules
                                                                                         - SONET/SDH regenerators
                                                                                         - Board-level serial links


OC-3/12 SONET/SDH Clock and Data Recovery IC
                  Provides same functionality of the multi-rate CDR at lower speeds.     - Same as Multi-Rate CDR

</TABLE>

CUSTOMERS, SALES AND MARKETING

    We market our products to original equipment manufacturers and other
providers of applications in the wireline, wireless and optical networking
communications markets. The following is a list of customers that have purchased
our products and incorporated them into products or devices offered to their
customers:

-  3Com              -  Motorola            -  Smart Link           -  Topic
-  Lucent            -  PC-TEL              -  Sony

    To date, we have sold a predominant portion of our ICs through our direct
sales force. We maintain four sales offices in North America and conduct
European direct sales through our United Kingdom subsidiary. Our direct sales
force includes regional sales managers in the field and area business managers
at our headquarters to further support customer communications. Many of these
managers have engineering degrees. Our password-protected field sales
organization Web site, which includes technical documentation, backlog
information, order status, product availability and new product introduction
information, supports communications with our field sales organization.
Additionally, we provide direct communication to all field sales personnel as
part of a structured sales communications program.

    We also utilize independent sales representatives and distributors to
generate sales of our products. We have relationships with many independent
sales representatives and distributors worldwide whom we have selected based


                                       6
<PAGE>


on their understanding of the mixed-signal IC marketplace and their ability to
provide effective field sales support for our products. To date, sales to these
representatives and distributors have accounted for a modest portion of our
sales.

    Our marketing efforts are targeted at both identified industry leaders and
emerging market participants. Marketing activities are supported by a focused
communications effort that targets editorial coverage in leading trade and
business publications. Our external Web site includes data sheets and supporting
product information, press releases and a company overview. These activities, in
conjunction with customer contacts, help prompt requests for evaluation boards
and sample products, which are fulfilled through our corporate headquarters as
an integrated part of our sales efforts.

    Due to the complex and innovative nature of our ICs, we employ experienced
applications engineers who work closely with each customer to support the
design-win process, and can significantly accelerate the customer's time
required to bring a product to market. A design-win occurs when a customer has
designed our ICs into its product architecture. A considerable amount of effort
to assist the customer in incorporating our ICs into its products typically is
required prior to any sale. In many cases, our innovative ICs require
significantly different implementations than existing approaches and, therefore,
successful implementations may require extensive communication with potential
customers. The amount of time required to achieve a design-win can vary
substantially depending on a customer's development cycle, which can be
relatively short (such as three months) or very long (such as two years) based
on a wide variety of customer factors. Due to this extensive design-win process,
once a completed design architecture has been implemented and produced in high
volumes, our customers are reluctant to significantly alter their designs. We
believe this promotes relatively long product life cycles for our ICs and high
barriers to entry for competitive products, even at lower price levels for such
competing products. Finally, our close collaboration with our customers provides
us with knowledge of derivative product ideas or completely new product line
offerings that may not otherwise arise in other new product discussions.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    Through our research and development efforts, we apply our world-class
analog and mixed-signal engineering talent and expertise to create new ICs that
integrate functions typically performed inefficiently by multiple discrete
components. This integration generally results in lower costs, smaller die
sizes, lower power demands and enhanced price/performance characteristics. We
attempt to reuse successful techniques for integration in new applications where
similar benefits can be realized. Reliable and precise analog and mixed-signal
ICs can only be developed by teams of engineers under the direction of senior
engineers with significant analog experience who are familiar with the
intricacies of designing these ICs for commercial volume production. The
development of test methodologies is a critical activity in releasing a new
product for commercial success. We believe that we have attracted some of the
best engineers in our industry. As of December 30, 2000, we had 101 employees
involved in research and development.

    Research and development expenses were $19.4 million, $8.3 million, and $4.6
million in fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

TECHNOLOGY

    Our product development process facilitates the design of highly innovative
mixed-signal ICs. Our senior engineers start the product development process by
forming an understanding of our customers' products and then design alternatives
for decreasing power, size and cost requirements. Our engineers' deep knowledge
of existing and emerging communications standards and performance requirements
help us to assess the technical feasibility of a particular IC. We target areas
where Silicon Laboratories can provide compelling product improvements. Once we
have solved the primary challenges, our field engineers continue to work closely
with our customers' design teams to maintain and develop an understanding of our
customers' needs, allowing us to formulate derivative products and features.

    In providing mixed-signal ICs for our customers, we believe our key
competitive advantages are: (1) analog CMOS design expertise; (2) digital signal
processing design expertise; and (3) our broad understanding of communication
systems technology and trends. To fully capitalize on these advantages, we have


                                       7

<PAGE>

assembled a world-class development team with exceptional analog and
mixed-signal design expertise led by accomplished senior engineers.

ANALOG CMOS DESIGN EXPERTISE

    We believe that our most significant core competency is our world-class
analog design capability. Additionally, we strive to design all of our ICs in
CMOS processes. There are several modern process technologies for
manufacturing semiconductors including CMOS, Bipolar, BiCMOS, silicon
germanium and gallium arsenide. While it is significantly more difficult to
design analog ICs in CMOS, CMOS provides multiple benefits versus existing
alternatives, including significantly reduced cost, reduced technology risk
and greater worldwide foundry capacity. CMOS is the most commonly used process
technology for manufacturing digital ICs and as a result is most likely to be
used for the manufacturing of ICs with finer line geometries, which enable
smaller and faster ICs. By designing our ICs in CMOS, we enable our products
to benefit from this trend towards finer line geometries, which lowers the
cost of the digital circuitry in our products and allows us to integrate more
digital functionality into our mixed-signal IC's.

    Designing analog ICs is significantly more complicated than designing
digital ICs. While advanced software tools exist to help automate digital IC
design, there are far fewer tools for advanced analog IC design. In many
cases, our analog circuit design efforts begin at the fundamental transistor
level. We believe that we have a demonstrated ability to design the most
difficult analog and RF circuits using standard CMOS technologies. For
example, our DAA product family replaces bulky, discrete modem components,
such as transformers, relays and opto-isolators, with highly integrated CMOS
mixed-signal ICs. Similarly, bulky wireless phone components such as
oscillators are replaced by our integrated CMOS frequency synthesizer
products. Our design expertise in the technically challenging optical
networking market has allowed us to reduce the number of supplemental
components used in our customers' products while providing lower levels of
noise in the circuit operation. This is a key technical consideration in high
speed optical networks.

DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING DESIGN EXPERTISE

    We consider the partitioning of a circuit's functionality to be a
proprietary and creative design technique. Our digital signal processing
design expertise maximizes the price/performance characteristics of both the
analog and digital functions and allows our ICs to work in an optimized manner
to accomplish particular tasks. Generally, we surround core analog circuitry
with inexpensive digital CMOS transistors, which allows our ICs to perform the
required analog functions with increased digital capabilities. For example,
our ProSLIC product is designed to function more efficiently than traditional
products for the source end of the telephone line which involve a two chip
combination requiring more board space and numerous external components. The
ProSLIC product is partitioned by combining a core analog design that provides
analog-to-digital conversion and digital-to-analog conversion with optimized
digital signal processing functions such as data compression, data expansion,
filtering and tone generation. In this manner, we can isolate the higher
voltage required to ring a telephone in low-cost, off-chip high voltage
transistors, thereby enabling us to fulfill the remaining core functions with
a single chip. As a further example, our Clock and Data Recovery product used
to re-construct signals in an optical network application utilizes an
architecturally advanced phase locked loop circuit based principally on
digital signal processing. By performing a significant portion of this
function in the digital domain in a monolithic chip, the circuit has been able
to satisfy the demanding specifications of the optical network SONET standard
using inexpensive CMOS transistors.

UNDERSTANDING OF COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY AND TRENDS

    Our focused expertise in communications ICs is rooted in our founders'
previous experience at AT&T Bell Labs working in CMOS design for
communications applications. This expertise, which we consider a competitive
advantage, is the foundation of our in-depth understanding of the technology
and trends that impact communications systems and markets. We believe we have
a unique ability to predict product evolution and design compelling ICs for
communications manufacturers. Our expertise spans from single line plain old
telephone communications (POTS) to high speed SONET based optical networks. We
have also expanded our knowledge base into wireless communications. Our
understanding of the role of analog/digital interfaces within

                                       8

<PAGE>

communications systems and the key domestic and international
telecommunications standards that must be supported are particular areas of
our expertise.

MANUFACTURING

    As a fabless IC manufacturer, we conduct IC design and development in our
facilities in the United States and electronically transfer our proprietary IC
designs to third-party semiconductor fabricators who process silicon wafers to
produce the ICs that we design. Our IC designs use industry-standard
complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, manufacturing process
technology to achieve a level of performance normally associated with more
expensive special-purpose IC fabrication technology. We believe the use of
CMOS technology facilitates the rapid production of our ICs within a lower
cost framework. Our IC production employs submicron process geometries which
are readily available from leading foundry suppliers worldwide, thus ensuring
the availability of manufacturing capability over our products' life cycles.
We currently rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and its affiliate,
Vanguard International Semiconductor, to manufacture substantially all of our
semiconductor wafers.

    Once the silicon wafers have been produced, they are shipped directly to
our third-party assembly subcontractors. The assembled ICs are then forwarded
for final testing, typically to our facilities, prior to shipping to our
customers. We believe that our fabless manufacturing model significantly
reduces our capital requirements and allows us to focus our resources on the
design, development and marketing of our ICs.

COMPETITION

    The markets for semiconductors generally, and for analog and mixed-signal
ICs in particular, are intensely competitive. We believe the principal
competitive factors in our industry are:

<TABLE>

<S>                                        <C>
-  level of integration;                   -  intellectual property;
-  product capabilities;                   -  customer support;
-  reliability;                            -  reputation; and
-  price;                                  -  ability to rapidly introduce new
-  performance                                products to market.

</TABLE>

     We believe that we are competitive with respect to these factors,
particularly because our ICs typically are smaller in size, are highly
integrated, achieve high performance specifications at lower price points than
competitive products and are manufactured in standard CMOS which generally
enables us to supply them on a relatively rapid basis to customers to meet
their product introduction schedules. Our DAA product is an example of our
competitive positioning. Traditional DAA isolation techniques rely on relays,
optical isolators and transformers, transfer analog signals across the
isolation barrier, and/or require numerous external components to achieve
their functionality. Our silicon DAA reduces costs by eliminating the need for
these bulky and/or numerous discrete components. Our DAA ICs also reduce board
area and power consumption, while improving performance. However,
disadvantages we face in our markets include our short operating history and
the need for customers to redesign their products and modify their software to
implement our ICs in their products.

    We anticipate that the market for our products will continually evolve and
will be subject to rapid technological change. In addition, as we target and
supply products to numerous wireline, wireless, and optical networking
communications markets and applications, we face competition from a relatively
large number of competitors. Across our product offerings, we compete with
AMCC, Analog Devices, Broadcom (through its acquisition of NewPort
Communications, Inc.), Conexant, CP Claire, Delta Integration, ESS, Fujitsu,
Infineon Technologies, Legerity (formerly the Advanced Micro Devices telecom
division), Lucent, Maxim Integrated Products, National Semiconductor, Philips,
Texas Instruments, Vitesse Semiconductor Corp, and others. We expect to face
competition in the future from our current competitors, other manufacturers
and designers of semiconductors, and innovative start-up semiconductor design
companies. In addition, our customers could develop products or technologies
internally that would replace their need for our products and would become a


                                       9
<PAGE>

source of competition. As the markets for communications products grow, we also
may face competition from traditional communications device companies. These
companies may enter the mixed-signal semiconductor market by introducing their
own products, including components within their products that would eliminate
the need for our ICs, or by entering into strategic relationships with or
acquiring other existing IC providers.

    Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating
histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and
significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing,
distribution, technical and other resources than us. Current and potential
competitors have established or may establish financial and strategic
relationships between themselves or with existing or potential customers,
resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new
competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire
significant market share.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

    Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. We
seek to protect our technology through a combination of patents, copyrights,
trade secrets, trademarks and confidentiality procedures. As of December 30,
2000, we had been granted 16 United States patents in the IC field. We also
have filed 78 applications for additional patents covering our wireline,
wireless, and optical networking product areas. There can be no assurance that
patents will ever be issued for these applications. Furthermore, it is
possible that any patents held by us may be invalidated, circumvented,
challenged or licensed to others. In addition, there can be no assurance that
such patents will provide us with competitive advantages or adequately
safeguard our proprietary rights.

    In addition, we claim copyright protection for proprietary documentation
used in our products. We have filed for registration, or are in the process of
filing for registration, the visual image of each IC that we have manufactured
in commercial quantities with the United States Copyright Office. We have
registered the "Silicon Laboratories" logo as a trademark in the United
States. All other trademarks, service marks or trade names appearing in this
report are the property of their respective owners. We also attempt to protect
our trade secrets and other proprietary information through agreements with
our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants, and through other
security measures. We intend to protect our rights vigorously, but there can
be no assurance that our efforts will be successful. In addition, the laws of
other countries in which our products are sold may not protect our products
and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United
States.

     While our ability to effectively compete depends in large part on our
ability to protect our intellectual property, we believe that our technical
expertise and ability to introduce new products in a timely manner will be an
important factor in maintaining our competitive position.

    Many participants in the semiconductor and communications industries have
a significant number of patents and have frequently demonstrated a readiness
to commence litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual
property infringement. From time to time, third parties may assert
infringement claims against us. We may not prevail in any such litigation or
may not be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties
on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Litigation, regardless of the
outcome, is likely to result in substantial cost and diversion of our
resources, including our management's time. Any such litigation could
materially adversely affect us. Other than industry standard licenses with our
vendors, such as wafer fabrication tool libraries, computer-aided design
applications and business software applications, we do not have material
licenses.

EMPLOYEES

    As of December 30, 2000, we employed 256 people, including 61 in
manufacturing, 101 in engineering development, 54 in marketing, 18 in sales
and 22 in administration. Our success depends on the continued service of our
key technical and senior management personnel and on our ability to continue
to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled analog and mixed-signal
engineers. The competition for such personnel is intense. We have never had a
work stoppage and none of our employees are represented by a labor
organization. We consider our employee relations to be good.

                                      10

<PAGE>

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

    Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls
on the storage, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases
used in the semiconductor industry. Compliance with these laws and regulations
has not had a material impact on the Company's financial position or results
of operations.

FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS

RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS

WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR
SALES, AND THE LOSS OF, OR A SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION IN ORDERS FROM, ANY KEY
CUSTOMER COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR SALES

    In fiscal 2000, PC-TEL accounted for 46% of our revenue. Many markets for
our products are dominated by a small number of potential customers. Our
operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales
to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these
customers to sell products that use our integrated circuit, or IC, products.
In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our ICs at all,
purchase fewer ICs than they did in the past or alter their purchasing
patterns, particularly because:

         -        we do not have any material long-term purchase arrangements
                  with these or any of our other customers;

         -        substantially all of our sales to date have been made on a
                  purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel,
                  change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no
                  notice to us and without penalty; and

         -        some of our customers have sought or are seeking relationships
                  with current or potential competitors which may affect our
                  customers' purchasing decisions.

    On January 4, 2001, our largest customer PC-TEL announced that its revenue
for the quarter ended on December 31, 2000 would be below PC-TEL's previous
expectations due to the rapid deterioration in PC demand industry wide. PC-TEL
characterized this revenue shortfall as significantly below previous company
forecasts and further indicated that they believe this weak demand creates
uncertainty for the first half of 2001. We believe that this revenue shortfall
by PC-TEL will have a sizable impact on the Company's results, particularly
in the Wireline Products Division, and creates uncertainty for the first half
of fiscal year 2001. Revenues for the March 2001 quarter are expected to be in
the range of $16 million to $18 million.

    On October 17, PC-TEL announced that the U.S. International Trade
Commission (ITC) voted to investigate trade practices involving certain host
signal processing modems, also known as soft modems, arising from a complaint
filed by PC-TEL alleging that Smart Link's solutions infringe PC-TEL's patents.
Both PC-TEL and Smart Link are significant customers for us. Should our two
customers fail to settle their dispute, the ITC could take action that could
result in the loss of sales by us to Smart Link, disruption of our ongoing
supply relationships and obsolescence of inventory specifically manufactured
for Smart Link. Should our two customers arrive at a settlement that would
increase our revenue concentration from PC-TEL, we would anticipate that it may
result in our revenue, gross profit, gross margin percentage and net income
decreasing, reflecting PC-TEL's increased ability to negotiate lower prices due
to higher sales volume and favorable negotiating position.

    While we have been the sole supplier of the direct access arrangement, or
DAA, IC used in PC-TEL's products, we anticipate that PC-TEL would consider
alternative sources in the future in order to diversify its supplier base
which would increase its negotiating leverage with us and protect its ability
to secure DAA components. We have a volume purchase agreement with PC-TEL, but
the agreement does not require PC-TEL to purchase any minimum number of units
from us during fiscal 2001. We believe that any second source of DAA ICs for
PC-TEL could have an adverse effect on the prices we are able to charge PC-TEL
and the volume of DAA ICs that we sell to PC-TEL, which would negatively
affect our sales and operating results.

                                      11

<PAGE>

    On March 20, 2000, 3Com announced a substantial restructuring of its
businesses. This restructuring resulted in 3Com exiting the desktop analog
modem and PC card modem businesses through a sale to a new venture formed with
Accton Technology and NatSteel Electronics. This new venture, which included
the U.S. Robotics business previously acquired by 3Com, uses our DAA IC
products. This business transition by 3Com and the subsequent business
activities of this new venture may disrupt our supplier relationships and
adversely affect our operating results. 3Com accounted for 10% of revenues in
fiscal 1999 and less than 10% in fiscal 2000.

    The loss of any of our key customers, or a significant reduction in sales
to any one of them, would significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect
our business.

WE HAVE DEPENDED ON OUR DIRECT ACCESS ARRANGEMENT, OR DAA, FAMILY OF PRODUCTS
FOR SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR SALES TO DATE, AND SIGNIFICANT REDUCTIONS IN
ORDERS FOR DAA PRODUCTS WOULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR SALES

    A significant majority of our sales to date have been derived from sales
of our DAA family of ICs. This product family, in turn, is highly dependent on
sales to the PC industry which currently faces uncertain demand. Until we are
able to diversify our sales through the introduction of new products, we will
continue to rely on sales of our DAA products. A decline in overall demand for
personal computers, reduced market acceptance of our DAA products or the
introduction of products with superior price/performance characteristics by
our competitors could significantly reduce our sales. In addition,
substantially all of our DAA products that we have sold include technology
related to one or more of our issued U.S. patents. If these patents are found
to be invalid or unenforceable, our competitors could introduce competitive
products that could reduce both the volume and price per unit of our products.

WE DEPEND ON OUR CUSTOMERS TO SUPPORT OUR PRODUCTS

    Our products are currently used by our customers to produce modems for
personal computers and wireless telephones. We rely on our customers to
provide hardware, software and other technical support for the modems and
wireless telephones that use our products. If our customers do not provide the
required functionality or if our customers do not provide satisfactory support
for their products, the demand for modems and wireless telephones that
incorporate our products may diminish. Any reduction in the demand for modems
and wireless telephones would significantly reduce our sales.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP NEW AND ENHANCED PRODUCTS THAT ACHIEVE MARKET
ACCEPTANCE IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND COMPETITIVE POSITION
COULD BE HARMED

    Our future success will depend on our ability to reduce our dependence on
our DAA products by developing new ICs and product enhancements that achieve
market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of
mixed-signal ICs is highly complex, and we occasionally have experienced
delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and
product enhancements. Successful product development and market acceptance of
our products depend on a number of factors, including:

         -        changing requirements of customers within the wireline,
                  wireless communications and optical networking markets;

         -        accurate prediction of market requirements;

         -        timely completion and introduction of new designs;

         -        timely qualification and certification of our ICs for use in
                  our customers' products;

         -        commercial acceptance and volume production of the products
                  into which our ICs will be incorporated;

         -        availability of foundry and assembly capacity;

         -        achievement of high manufacturing yields;

         -        quality, price, performance, power use and size of our
                  products;

                                      12


<PAGE>

         -        availability, quality, price and performance of competing
                  products and technologies;

         -        our customer service and support capabilities and
                  responsiveness;

         -        successful development of our relationships with existing and
                  potential customers; and

         -        changes in technology, industry standards or end-user
                  preferences.

    We cannot provide any assurance that new products which we recently have
developed or may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. We have
introduced to market four new ICs:

         -        an RF synthesizer, which is used to generate high frequency
                  signals that are used in wireless communications systems to
                  select a particular radio channel;

         -        an ISOmodem, which is a miniaturized modem that can be
                  embedded in electronic devices with low transmission
                  requirements, such as credit card verification devices, to
                  provide quick network access;

         -        a ProSLIC product, which provides dial tone, busy tone, caller
                  ID and ring signal functions at the source end of the
                  telephone; and

         -        a high speed optical network product, which is a fully
                  integrated low-power clock and data recovery circuit designed
                  for SONET/ATM routers, multiplexers, digital cross connects
                  and optical transceiver modules.

    We also are actively developing other ICs. If our recently introduced or
other ICs fail to achieve market acceptance, our operating results and
competitive position could be adversely affected.

DUE TO OUR LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY, WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY BOTH IN ACCURATELY
PREDICTING OUR FUTURE SALES AND APPROPRIATELY BUDGETING FOR OUR EXPENSES

    We were incorporated in 1996 and did not begin generating sales until the
second quarter of 1998. As a result, we have only a short history from which to
predict future sales. This limited operating experience combined with the
rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we sell our products, as well as
other factors which are beyond our control, reduce our ability to accurately
forecast quarterly or annual sales. Additionally, because most of our expenses
are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may
not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall
of sales. During fiscal year 2000, we have expanded our staffing and increased
our expense levels in anticipation of future sales growth. If our sales do not
increase as anticipated, significant losses could result due to our higher
expense levels. As mentioned in FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS - "WE
DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR SALES,
AND THE LOSS OF, OR A SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION IN ORDERS FROM, ANY KEY CUSTOMER
COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR SALES", we expect a sequential decline of our
overall quarterly revenues for the March 2001 quarter which will materially
adversely affect our gross profits, gross margin percentage and net income.

WE RELY ON THIRD PARTIES TO MANUFACTURE AND ASSEMBLE OUR PRODUCTS AND THE
FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR MANUFACTURERS AND
ASSEMBLERS WOULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS

    We do not have our own manufacturing facilities. Therefore, we must rely on
third-party vendors to manufacture the ICs we design. We also currently rely on
two third-party assembly contractors, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and
Amkor, to assemble and package the silicon chips provided by the wafers for use
in final products. Additionally, we rely on third-party vendors for a minor
portion of the testing requirements of our products prior to shipping.

                                      13
<PAGE>

    There are significant risks associated with relying on these third-party
contractors, including:

         -        failure by us, our customers or their end customers to qualify
                  a selected supplier;

         -        capacity shortages during periods of high demand;

         -        reduced control over delivery schedules and quality;

         -        limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; and

         -        potential increases in prices.

    We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our
third-party vendors, and therefore, they are not obligated to perform services
or supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantities,
except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Although we believe
that other semiconductor foundries or assembly contractors can adequately
address our needs, we expect that it would take approximately two to nine months
to transition performance of these services from our current providers to new
providers. Such a transition may also require a qualification process by our
customers or their end customers. We generally place orders for products with
some of our suppliers approximately four months prior to the anticipated
delivery date, with order volumes based on our forecasts of demand from our
customers. Accordingly, if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we
may be unable to obtain adequate foundry or assembly capacity from our
third-party contractors to meet our customers' delivery requirements, or we may
accumulate excess inventories. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately
respond to unexpected increases in customer purchase orders, and therefore, were
unable to benefit from this incremental demand. None of our third-party foundry
or assembly contractors have provided assurances to us that adequate capacity
will be available to us within the time required to meet additional demand for
our products.

    From our inception through fiscal 2000, substantially all of the silicon
wafers for the products that we shipped were manufactured either by Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. or Vanguard International Semiconductor, an
affiliate of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. Our customers typically
complete their own qualification process. If we fail to balance customer demand
across semiconductor fabrications properly, we might not be able to fulfill
demand for our products, which would adversely affect our operating results.
Additionally, a resulting write-off of unusable inventories would contribute to
a decline in earnings.

THE SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING PROCESS IS HIGHLY COMPLEX AND, FROM TIME TO
TIME, MANUFACTURING YIELDS MAY FALL BELOW OUR EXPECTATIONS WHICH COULD RESULT IN
OUR INABILITY TO TIMELY SATISFY DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS.

    The manufacture of silicon wafers for our products is a highly complex and
technologically demanding process. Although we work closely with our foundries
to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, our foundries from
time to time have experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.
Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or
contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated
manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance deficiencies. If our foundries
fail to timely deliver fabricated silicon wafers of satisfactory quality, we
will be unable to timely meet our customers' demand for our products, which
would adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer
relationships.

ANY ACQUISITIONS WE MAKE COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS AND HARM OUR FINANCIAL
CONDITION

    As part of our growth strategy, we will continue to evaluate opportunities
to acquire other businesses or technologies that would complement our current
offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical
capabilities. On August 9, 2000, we completed the acquisition of Krypton
Isolation, Inc. (Krypton) for $42 million in cash and common stock. On October
2, 2000, we completed the acquisition of SNR Semiconductor for $3.7 million in
cash and stock. These acquisitions and any other potential future

                                      14
<PAGE>

acquisitions entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely
affect our business and operating results, including:

         -        problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or
                  products with our existing business and products;

         -        diversion of management's time and attention from our core
                  business;

         -        difficulties in retaining business relationships with
                  suppliers and customers of the acquired company;

         -        risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior
                  experience; and

         -        potential loss of key employees of the acquired company.

OUR CURRENT MANUFACTURERS AND ASSEMBLERS ARE CONCENTRATED IN THE SAME GEOGRAPHIC
REGION WHICH INCREASES THE RISK THAT A NATURAL DISASTER, LABOR STRIKE, WAR OR
POLITICAL UNREST COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS

    Our current semiconductor manufacturers are located in the same region
within Taiwan and our assembly contractors are located in the Pacific Rim
region. The risk of earthquakes in Taiwan and the Pacific Rim region is
significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. We
are not currently covered by insurance against business disruption caused by
earthquakes as such insurance is not currently available on terms that we
believe are commercially reasonable. Earthquakes, fire, flooding or other
natural disasters in Taiwan or the Pacific Rim region, or political unrest, war,
labor strikes or work stoppages in countries where our semiconductor
manufacturers' and assemblers' facilities are located, likely would result in
the disruption of our foundry or assembly capacity. Any disruption resulting
from these events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products
until we are able to shift our manufacturing or assembling from the affected
contractor to another third-party vendor. There can be no assurance that such
alternate capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, if at all.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO INCREASED INVENTORY RISKS AND COSTS BECAUSE WE BUILD OUR
PRODUCTS BASED ON FORECASTS PROVIDED BY CUSTOMERS BEFORE RECEIVING PURCHASE
ORDERS FOR THE PRODUCTS

    In order to assure availability of our products for some of our largest
customers, we start the manufacturing of our products in advance of receiving
purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. However, these
forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize
sales for these products until they are shipped to the customer. As a result, we
incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. Because
demand for our products may not materialize, manufacturing based on forecasts
subjects us to increased risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased
obsolescence and may increase our operating costs.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR EXISTING GROWTH RATE

    Although we have experienced sales and earnings growth in our recent
quarterly and annual periods, we may not be able to sustain these growth rates.
In particular, we may gain significant market share in a relatively short period
of time following the introduction of a new product, resulting in sales growth.
However, incremental gains in market share for these newly introduced products
may not occur. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior
quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating
performance. On January 4, 2001, our largest customer, PC-TEL, announced that
its revenue for the quarter ended on December 31, 2000 would be significantly
below previous PC-TEL forecasts. This will result in a significant shortfall in
revenue for us in the March, 2001 quarter with uncertainty for the future
sequential quarterly periods.

WE MAY EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT PERIOD-TO-PERIOD QUARTERLY AND ANNUAL FLUCTUATIONS
IN OUR SALES AND OPERATING RESULTS, WHICH MAY RESULT IN VOLATILITY IN OUR STOCK
PRICE

    We may experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our sales
and operating results in the future due to a number of factors, and any such
variations may cause our stock price to fluctuate. It is likely that in some
future period our operating results will be below the expectations of

                                      15
<PAGE>

public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, our stock price may
drop, perhaps significantly. A number of factors, in addition to those cited
in other risk factors applicable to our business, may contribute to
fluctuations in our sales and operating results, including:

         -        the timing and volume of orders from our customers;

         -        the rate of acceptance of our products by our customers,
                  including the acceptance of new products we may develop for
                  integration in the products manufactured by such customers,
                  which we refer to as "design wins";

         -        the demand for and life cycles of the products incorporating
                  our ICs;

         -        the rate of adoption of mixed-signal ICs in the markets we
                  target;

         -        deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products
                  or product enhancements from us or our competitors or other
                  providers of ICs;

         -        changes in product mix; and

         -        the rate at which new markets emerge for products we are
                  currently developing or for which our design expertise can be
                  utilized to develop products for these new markets.

    For example, the personal computer modem market is characterized by rapid
fluctuations in demand which results in corresponding fluctuations in the demand
for our DAA products that are incorporated in personal computer modems.
Additionally, the rate of technology acceptance by our customers results in
fluctuating demand for our products as customers are reluctant to incorporate a
new IC into their products until the new IC has achieved market acceptance.
However, once a new IC achieves market acceptance, demand for the new IC quickly
accelerates and demand quickly declines for the product that the new IC
replaces. We believe that the sequential decline of our overall quarterly
revenues for the March 2001 quarter as set forth in the FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE
OPERATING RESULTS - "WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS FOR A
SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR SALES, AND THE LOSS OF, OR A SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION IN
ORDERS FROM, ANY KEY CUSTOMER COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR SALES", will
materially adversely affect our gross profits, gross margin percentage and net
income.

WE ARE A RELATIVELY SMALL COMPANY WITH LIMITED RESOURCES COMPARED TO SOME OF OUR
CURRENT AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY
AND INCREASE MARKET SHARE

    Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating
histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition and a larger
base of customers than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater
credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to
adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the
development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. In
addition, some of our current and potential competitors have already established
supplier or joint development relationships with the decision makers at our
current or potential customers. These competitors may be able to leverage their
existing relationships to discourage their customers from purchasing products
from us or persuade them to replace our products with their products. Our
competitors may also offer bundled chipset kit arrangements offering a more
complete product despite the technical merits or advantages of our products.
These competitors may elect not to support our products which could complicate
our sales efforts.

    In addition, our largest competitors may restructure their operations to
create separate companies that are more focused on providing the types of
products we produce. For example, Rockwell's restructuring led to the
creation of Conexant which is a significant competitor. Additionally, Siemens
spun off its semiconductor business to create a more focused company named
Infineon Technologies. In July 2000, Lucent Technologies announced its plans
to spin off its microelectronics business with includes the optoelectronics
components and integrated circuits division, into a separate company in order
to accelerate the growth of the business and alleviate strategic conflicts
with Lucent's competitors. Increased competition could decrease our prices,


                                      16
<PAGE>

reduce our sales, lower our margins or decrease our market share. These and
other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against
current or future competitors, and may materially harm our business.

WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL TO MANAGE OUR BUSINESS EFFECTIVELY IN A RAPIDLY
CHANGING MARKET, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN OUR CURRENT PERSONNEL AND HIRE
ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL, OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND SUCCESSFULLY MARKET OUR
PRODUCTS COULD BE HARMED

    We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to
attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering and sales and
marketing personnel. Specifically, we believe that our future success is highly
dependent on Navdeep Sooch, our co-founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
of the Board, Jeffrey Scott, our co-founder and Vice President of Engineering,
and David Welland, our co-founder and Vice President of Technology. There is
currently a shortage of qualified personnel with significant experience in the
design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of analog and
mixed-signal communications ICs. In particular, there is a shortage of engineers
who are familiar with the intricacies of the design and manufacturability of
analog elements, and competition for such personnel is intense. Our key
technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our
technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting
and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel to support our
anticipated growth. The loss of any of our key employees or the inability to
attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and
marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and
negatively impact our ability to sell, our products.

OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS ARE FOCUSED ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF NEW
TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS, AND ANY DELAY IN THE DEVELOPMENT, OR ABANDONMENT, OF
THESE TECHNOLOGIES OR PRODUCTS BY INDUSTRY PARTICIPANTS, OR THEIR FAILURE TO
ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, COULD COMPROMISE OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION

    Our ICs are used as components in communications devices in the wireline,
wireless and optical networking markets. As a result, we have devoted and expect
to continue to devote a large amount of resources to develop products based on
new and emerging technologies and standards that will be commercially introduced
in the future. In fiscal 2000, our research and development expense was $19.4
million, which represented 18.8% of our sales compared to $8.3 million, or 17.7%
of our sales for fiscal year 1999. A number of large companies in the wireline,
wireless and optical networking industries are actively involved in the
development of these new technologies and standards. Should any of these
companies delay or abandon their efforts to develop commercially available
products based on new technologies and standards, our research and development
efforts with respect to these technologies and standards likely would have no
appreciable value. In addition, if we do not correctly anticipate new
technologies and standards, or if the products that we develop based on these
new technologies and standards fail to achieve market acceptance, our
competitors may be better able to address market demand than would we.
Furthermore, if markets for these new technologies and standards develop later
than we anticipate, or do not develop at all, demand for our products that are
currently in development would suffer, resulting in lower sales of these
products than we currently anticipate. We have introduced to market a RF
synthesizer product for use in wireless phones operating on the Global System
for Mobile Communications, or GSM, standard. The RF synthesizer is also
compatible with General Packet Radio Service, which is the emerging data
communications protocol for GSM based wireless phones. We cannot be certain
whether manufacturers of wireless phones using these standards will incorporate
our RF synthesizer or that these standards will not change, thereby making our
products unsuitable or impractical. In the area of Optical Networking, our
recently introduced clock and data recovery integrated circuit operates within
stringent specifications for high speed communications systems known as SONET.
Changes to this standard could make our products uncompetitive or unsuitable to
changing system requirements and result in the inability to sell these products.

OUR PRODUCTS ARE COMPLEX AND MAY REQUIRE MODIFICATIONS TO RESOLVE UNDETECTED
ERRORS WHICH COULD LEAD TO AN INCREASE IN OUR COSTS OR A REDUCTION IN OUR SALES

    Our products are complex and may contain errors when first introduced or as
new versions are released. We rely primarily on our in-house testing personnel
to design test operations and procedures to detect any errors prior to delivery
of our products to our customers. Because our products are manufactured

                                      17

<PAGE>

by third parties, should problems occur in the operation or performance of
our ICs, we may experience delays in meeting key introduction dates or
scheduled delivery dates to our customers. These errors also could cause us
to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our
engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause
significant customer relations and business reputation problems.

THE PERFORMANCE OF OUR DIRECT ACCESS ARRANGEMENT PRODUCTS MAY BE ADVERSELY
AFFECTED BY SEVERE ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS THAT MAY REQUIRE MODIFICATIONS,
WHICH COULD LEAD TO AN INCREASE IN OUR COSTS OR A REDUCTION IN OUR SALES

    Although our direct access arrangement products are compliant with published
specifications, these established specifications might not adequately address
all conditions that must be satisfied in order to operate in harsh environments.
This includes environments where there are wide variations in electrical
quality, telephone line quality, static electricity and operating temperatures
or that may be affected by lightning or improper handling by customers and end
users. Our products have had a limited period of time in the field under
operation, and these environmental factors may result in unanticipated returns
of our products. Any necessary modifications could cause us to incur significant
re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our
product development efforts and cause significant customer relations and
business reputation problems.

    We have a large installed base of direct access arrangement products in the
field. As part of our ongoing support of this product line, we verify the
performance of our products through regulatory agency qualifications, customer
acceptance procedures, evaluation of end customer technical support information,
and analysis of field returns. Certain customer modem implementations of our
direct access arrangement products have been identified to be susceptible to a
particular class of electrical surges originating from lightning strikes that
are not adequately described in regulatory agency qualifications. We have
provided application guidelines to our customers to enhance their implementation
of the modem function to protect our devices from these lightning strike
electrical surges.

    Damage from these electrical surges could result in product liability claims
against our customers that produce these modems or against us. Our customers may
seek indemnification or other compensation from us with respect to any liability
that they incur. Even if our DAA product is not the source of the problem and we
are not contractually liable for such indemnification, we may incur costs in an
effort to maintain good relations with our customers. If we are held liable for
these claims or incur other costs in order to maintain good relations, this
problem could adversely affect our operating results.

A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF THE FINAL TESTING OF OUR PRODUCTS IS PERFORMED
INTERNALLY BY US, WHICH INCREASES OUR FIXED COSTS

    In fiscal 2000, substantially all of our test operations were performed
in-house. A minor portion of test operations was provided by our contract
manufacturers or other third parties. While we expect that performing this
testing in-house should provide us with advantages in terms of lower per unit
cost, quality control and shorter time required to bring a product to market, we
may encounter difficulties and delays in maintaining or expanding our internal
test capabilities. In addition, final testing of complex semiconductors requires
substantial resources to acquire state-of-the-art testing equipment and hiring
additional qualified personnel, which has increased our fixed costs. If demand
for our products does not support the effective utilization of these employees
and additional equipment, we may not realize any benefit from foregoing the use
of outside vendors and utilizing internal final testing. Any decrease in the
demand for our products could result in the underutilization of our testing
equipment and personnel. If our internal test operations are underused or
mismanaged, we may incur significant costs that could adversely affect our
operating results.

WE PLAN TO INCREASE OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES ACTIVITIES SIGNIFICANTLY, WHICH WILL
SUBJECT US TO ADDITIONAL BUSINESS RISKS INCLUDING INCREASED LOGISTICAL
COMPLEXITY, POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS

    We intend to open additional sales offices in international markets to
expand our international sales activities in Europe and the Pacific Rim region.
Our planned international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to hire
additional personnel and develop relationships with international

                                      18
<PAGE>

distributors. We may not be able to maintain or increase international market
demand for our products. Our international operations are subject to a number
of risks, including:

         -        increased complexity and costs of managing international
                  operations;

         -        protectionist laws and business practices that favor local
                  competition in some countries;

         -        multiple, conflicting and changing laws, regulations and tax
                  schemes;

         -        longer sales cycles;

         -        greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and
                  longer collection periods; and

         -        political and economic instability.

    To date, all of our sales to international customers and purchases of
components from international suppliers have been denominated in U.S. dollars.
As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign
currencies could make our products more expensive for our international
customers to purchase, thus rendering them less competitive.

OUR INABILITY TO MANAGE GROWTH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
BUSINESS

    During the past 24 months, we have significantly increased the scope of our
operations and expanded our workforce from 42 employees at January 2, 1999 to
256 employees at December 30, 2000. This growth has placed, and any future
growth of our operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our
management personnel, systems and resources. We anticipate that we will need to
implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems,
procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other
internal management systems. We also expect that we will need to continue to
expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will
require substantial management effort. If we are unable to effectively manage
our expanding operations, our business could be materially and adversely
affected.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, WHICH WOULD NEGATIVELY
AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE

    Our products rely on our proprietary technology, and we expect that future
technological advances made by us will be critical to sustain market acceptance
of our products. Therefore, we believe that the protection of our intellectual
property rights is and will continue to be important to the success of our
business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property
rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our
employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and
distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite
these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and
use our proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is
difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent
unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the
laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We
cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of our pending
applications nor can we be certain that any issued patents would protect or
benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example,
issued patents may be circumvented or challenged and declared invalid or
unenforceable. We also cannot be certain that others will not develop effective
competing technologies on their own.

SIGNIFICANT LITIGATION OVER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IN OUR INDUSTRY MAY CAUSE US
TO BECOME INVOLVED IN COSTLY AND LENGTHY LITIGATION WHICH COULD SERIOUSLY HARM
OUR BUSINESS

    In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States
involving patents and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, we
receive letters from various industry participants alleging infringement of
patents or misappropriation of trade secrets. The exploratory nature of these
inquiries has become relatively common in the semiconductor industry. We
typically respond when appropriate and as advised by legal counsel.

                                      19
<PAGE>

We have been involved in litigation to protect our intellectual property
rights in the past and may become involved in such litigation again in the
future. We may also become involved in litigation to defend allegations of
infringement asserted by others. Legal proceedings could subject us to
significant liability for damages or invalidate our proprietary rights. Legal
proceedings initiated by us to protect our intellectual property rights could
also result in counterclaims or countersuits against us. Any litigation,
regardless of its outcome, would likely be time consuming and expensive to
resolve and would divert our management's time and attention. Any intellectual
property litigation also could force us to take specific actions, including:

         -        cease selling products that use the challenged intellectual
                  property;

         -        obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property
                  right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which
                  license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all;
                  or

         -        redesign those products that use infringing intellectual
                  property.

FAILURE TO EXPAND OUR DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS AND MANAGE OUR DISTRIBUTION
RELATIONSHIPS COULD IMPEDE OUR FUTURE GROWTH

    The future growth of our business will depend in part on our ability to
expand our existing relationships with distributors and sales representatives,
develop additional channels for the distribution and sale of our products and
manage these relationships. As part of our channel sales strategy, we intend to
expand our relationships with distributors and sales representatives. As we
develop our indirect sales capabilities, we will need to manage the potential
conflicts that may arise with our direct sales efforts. The inability to
successfully execute or manage a multi-channel sales strategy could impede our
future growth.

RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY

COMPETITION WITHIN THE NUMEROUS MARKETS WE TARGET MAY REDUCE SALES OF OUR
PRODUCTS AND REDUCE MARKET SHARE

    The markets for semiconductors in general, and for mixed-signal ICs in
particular, are intensely competitive. We expect that the market for our
products will continually evolve and will be subject to rapid technological
change. In addition, as we target and supply products to numerous markets and
applications, including wireline, wireless and optical networking communications
markets, we face competition from a relatively large number of competitors.
Across all of our product areas, we compete with AMCC, Analog Devices, Broadcom
(through its acquisition of NewPort Communications, Inc.), Conexant, CP Claire,
Delta Integration, ESS, Fujitsu, Infineon Technologies, Legerity (formerly the
Advanced Micro Devices telecom division), Lucent, Maxim Integrated Products,
National Semiconductor, Philips, Texas Instruments, Vitesse Semiconductor Corp,
and others. We expect to face competition in the future from our current
competitors, other manufacturers and designers of semiconductors, and innovative
start-up semiconductor design companies. Some of our customers, such as Intel,
Lucent, Motorola, and Texas Instruments are also large, established
semiconductor suppliers. Our sales to and support of these customers may enable
them to become a source of competition to us, despite our efforts to protect our
intellectual property rights. As the markets for communications products grow,
we also may face competition from traditional communications device companies.
These companies may enter the mixed-signal semiconductor market by introducing
their own ICs or by entering into strategic relationships with or acquiring
other existing providers of semiconductor products.

THE AVERAGE SELLING PRICES OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD DECREASE RAPIDLY WHICH MAY
NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR GROSS MARGINS AND SALES

    We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future
operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. We have
reduced the average unit price of our products in anticipation of future
competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our
competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to do so again in the
future. If we are unable to offset any such reductions in our average selling
prices by increasing our sales volumes, our gross profits and sales will suffer.
To maintain gross margins, we will need to develop and introduce new products
and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our costs. Our

                                      20
<PAGE>

failure to do so would cause our sales and gross margins to decline. We
believe the rapid deterioration in PC demand industry wide and the resulting
impact on our March 2001 quarter revenues, as set forth in FACTORS AFFECTING
FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS - "WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS FOR A
SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR SALES, AND THE LOSS OF, OR A SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION
IN ORDERS FROM, ANY KEY CUSTOMER COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR SALES", will
materially adversely affect our gross profits, gross margin percentage and
net income.

OUR CUSTOMERS REQUIRE OUR PRODUCTS TO UNDERGO A LENGTHY AND EXPENSIVE
QUALIFICATION PROCESS WHICH DOES NOT ASSURE PRODUCT SALES

    Prior to purchasing our products, our customers require that our products
undergo an extensive qualification process, which involves testing of the
products in the customer's system as well as rigorous reliability testing. This
qualification process may continue for six months or longer. However,
qualification of a product by a customer does not assure any sales of the
product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a
product to a customer, a subsequent revision to the IC, changes in its
manufacturing process or the selection of a new supplier by us may require a new
qualification process, which may result in delays and in us holding excess or
obsolete inventory. After our products are qualified, it can take an additional
six months or more before the customer commences volume production of components
or devices that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote
substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and
management efforts, toward qualifying our products with customers in
anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of
our products with a customer, such failure or delay would preclude or delay
sales of such product to the customer, which may impede our growth and cause our
business to suffer.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY

    The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by
constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price
erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in
product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns,
often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both
semiconductor companies' and their customers' products and declines in general
economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished
product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated
erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could have a material
adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, any upturn in
the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to
third-party foundry and assembly capacity. We are dependent on the availability
of such capacity to manufacture and assemble our ICs. Except for non-contractual
assurances of support for specifically identified customer accounts, none of our
third-party foundry or assembly contractors have provided assurances that
adequate capacity will be available to us.

OUR PRODUCTS MUST CONFORM TO INDUSTRY STANDARDS IN ORDER TO BE ACCEPTED BY END
USERS IN OUR MARKETS

    Generally, our products comprise only a part of a communications device. All
components of such devices must uniformly comply with industry standards in
order to operate efficiently together. We depend on companies that provide other
components of the devices to support prevailing industry standards. Many of
these companies are significantly larger and more influential in effecting
industry standards than we are. Some industry standards may not be widely
adopted or implemented uniformly, and competing standards may emerge that may be
preferred by our customers or end users. If larger companies do not support the
same industry standards that we do, or if competing standards emerge, market
acceptance of our products could be adversely affected which would harm our
business.

    Products for communications applications are based on industry standards
that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend
on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry
standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products
incompatible with products developed by other suppliers. As a result, we could
be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant
expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards.
If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a
significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial
design wins. We may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or

                                      21
<PAGE>
in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market
acceptance. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances may require
substantial time and expense.
