ITEM 1            BUSINESS

SUMMARY

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. ("Skyworks" or the "Company") is a leading wireless
semiconductor company focused exclusively on radio frequency (RF) and complete
cellular system solutions for mobile communications applications. We offer
front-end modules, RF subsystems and cellular systems to top wireless handset
and infrastructure customers.

From the radio to the baseband, we have developed one of the industry's broadest
product portfolio including leadership switches and power amplifier modules.
Additionally, we offer a highly integrated direct conversion transceiver and
have launched a comprehensive cellular system for next generation handsets.

With our extensive portfolio and significant systems-level expertise, Skyworks
is the ideal partner for both top-tier wireless manufacturers and new market
entrants who demand simplified architectures, faster development cycles and
fewer overall suppliers.

Skyworks was formed through the merger ("Merger") of the wireless communications
business of Conexant Systems, Inc. ("Conexant") and Alpha Industries, Inc.
("Alpha") on June 25, 2002. Following the Merger, Alpha changed its corporate
name to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts,
and have executive offices in Irvine, California. We have design, engineering,
manufacturing, marketing, sales and service facilities throughout North America,
Europe, and the Asia/Pacific region. Our Internet address is
www.skyworksinc.com. We make available on our Internet website free of charge
our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as practicable after we
electronically file such material with the SEC. The information contained in our
website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

On November 13, 2002, Skyworks successfully closed a private placement of $230
million of 4.75 percent convertible subordinated notes due 2007. These notes can
be converted into 110.4911 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal balance,
which is the equivalent of a conversion price of approximately $9.05 per share.
The net proceeds from the note offering were principally used to prepay debt
owed to Conexant under a financing agreement entered into with Conexant
immediately following the Merger. The payments to Conexant retired $105 million
of the $150 million note relating to the purchase of Conexant's semiconductor
assembly, module manufacturing and test facility located in Mexicali, Mexico,
and certain related operations ("Mexicali Operations") and repaid the $65
million principal amount outstanding as of November 13, 2002 under the loan
facility, dissolving the $100 million facility and resulting in the release of
Conexant's security interest in the assets and properties of the Company.

In connection with the prepayment by the Company of $105 million of the $150
million note owed to Conexant relating to the purchase of the Mexicali
Operations, the remaining $45 million principal balance on the note was
exchanged for new 15% convertible debt securities with a maturity date of June
30, 2005. These notes can be converted into the Company's common stock at a
conversion rate based on the applicable conversion price, which is subject to
adjustment based on, among other things, the market price of the Company's
common stock. Based on this adjustable conversion price, the Company expects
that the maximum number of shares that could be issued under the note is
approximately 7.1 million shares, subject to adjustment for stock splits and
other similar dilutive occurrences.

In addition to the retirement of $170 million in principal amount of
indebtedness owing to Conexant, we also retained approximately $53 million of
net proceeds of the private placement to support our working capital needs.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

We believe that cellular services and personal communications services are
increasingly expanding to offer more than just traditional voice services, with
emerging mobile communications technologies offering consumers and businesses
wireless access to data and information across a wide range of applications.
High-speed mobile access has the potential to dramatically enhance use of the
Internet, thereby facilitating the growth of electronic commerce. At the center
of these developments are the continuing evolution of the mobile phone and the
corresponding growth of the wireless communications infrastructure.

The cellular handset market has grown considerably over the past five years with
unit sales of approximately 400 million units in 2001, according to Gartner
Dataquest, a market research firm, up 500% from 1996 levels. As additional
wireless cellular capacity became available, an intensely competitive pricing
environment for wireless services developed at the same time that lower-priced,
feature-rich mobile phones were being introduced, contributing substantially to
the growth of new subscribers. We expect this trend to continue, enabling
further wireless expansion and increased market penetration worldwide. Market
penetration measures the portion of users or subscribers within the entire
population of a specified geographic area. In the


                                       3
<PAGE>
                                       Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and Subsidiaries


United States, market research firm EMC forecasts a growth in wireless
penetration from approximately 46% in 2001 to almost 75% by 2005. On a worldwide
basis, market penetration of wireless phones was just 16% in 2001 and could
approach 30% by 2005, based on data from EMC. We believe that this anticipated
dramatic market growth will create significant demand for wireless handsets as
well as for wireless infrastructure equipment to meet future network capacity
requirements.

New mobile phones with improved battery life and expanded features are being
introduced at a rapid rate, made possible by significant technological advances
that render earlier models obsolete after only one or two years. According to
market research firm Strategy Analytics, roughly half of the 2001 worldwide
cellular handset sales were replacements of previous models. We expect this
replacement market to continue contributing to the growth of the digital
cellular handset industry, led by the transition to next generation services,
such as CDMA2000, GPRS and EDGE wireless standards, which support wireless data
capacity. We anticipate that transition to third-generation services, which will
enable even higher bandwidth applications, including streaming video, digital
audio and digital camera functionality, should further bolster the replacement
market. Additionally, in emerging markets where wireline infrastructure is
inadequate or limited, we believe that digital wireless networks are providing a
viable and economic alternative that can be rapidly deployed.

In response to this rapidly changing market, handset original equipment
manufacturers, or OEMs, are significantly shortening product development cycles,
seeking simplified architectures and streamlining manufacturing processes.
Traditional OEMs are shifting to low-cost suppliers around the world. In turn,
original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, who lack RF and
systems-level expertise, are entering the high volume mobile phone market to
support OEMs as well as to develop handset platforms of their own. Original
design manufacturers and contract manufacturers can manage low-cost
manufacturing and assembly of handsets, freeing OEMs to focus on the higher
value marketing and distribution aspects of their business. Established handset
manufacturers and new market entrants alike are demanding complete semiconductor
system solutions that include the radio frequency system, all baseband
processing, protocol stack and user interface software, plus comprehensive
reference designs and development platforms. With these solutions, traditional
handset OEMs can accelerate time-to-market cycles with lower investments in
engineering and system design. These solutions also enable original design
manufacturers to enter the high volume handset market without the need to make
significant investments in RF and systems-level expertise.

Similarly, cellular and personal communications services network operators are
developing and deploying next generation services. These service providers are
incorporating packet-switching capability in their networks to deliver data
communications and Internet access to digital cellular and other wireless
devices. Over the long-term, service providers are seeking to establish a global
network that can be accessed by subscribers at any time, anywhere in the world
and that can provide subscribers with multimedia services. To meet this goal,
OEMs who supply wireless infrastructure base stations to network operators are
increasingly relying on mobile communications semiconductor suppliers who can
provide highly integrated radio frequency and mixed signal processing
functionality.

Additionally, as service providers migrate cellular subscribers to data
intensive next generation 2.5G and 3G applications, base stations that transmit
and receive signals in the backbone of cellular and personal communications
services systems will be under further capacity constraints. To meet the related
demand, OEMs will be challenged to increase base station transceiver performance
and functionality, while reducing size, power consumption and overall system
costs.

We believe that these market trends create a potentially significant opportunity
for a broad-based wireless semiconductor supplier with a comprehensive product
portfolio supported by specialized wireless manufacturing process technologies
and a full range of systems-level expertise.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

Skyworks is a leading wireless semiconductor company focused exclusively on RF
and complete cellular system solutions for mobile communications applications.
We offer front-end modules, RF subsystems and cellular systems to top wireless
handset and infrastructure customers. Skyworks operates in one business segment,
which designs, develops, manufactures and markets proprietary semiconductor
products and system solutions for manufacturers of wireless communication
products.

Skyworks possesses a broad wireless technology capability and one of the most
complete wireless communications product portfolios, coupled with customer
relationships with virtually all major handset and infrastructure manufacturers.
Our product portfolio includes almost every key semiconductor found within a
digital cellular handset, including:

      -     switches and filters (components that switch signals and incorporate
            filtering functionality);


                                       4
<PAGE>
                                       Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and Subsidiaries


      -     power amplifier (PA) modules (devices that amplify a signal to
            provide sufficient energy for it to reach the base station);

      -     RF transceivers (devices that perform radio frequency transmit and
            receive functions);

      -     synthesizers (devices used to tune to the correct channel to receive
            the RF signal from the base station);

      -     mixed signal processors (devices that convert analog signals into
            digital signals);

      -     digital signal processors (DSP) (digital devices that act as the
            cellular handset's central processor);

      -     audio (components that enable voice communication);

      -     physical interface DSP firmware (channel coding and equalization
            software);

      -     network access software (protocol stack supporting encoding and
            decoding); and

      -     MMI/applications (user interface software).


The following diagram illustrates our products that are used in a digital
cellular handset:



                        [SEMICONDUCTOR GRAPHIC DIAGRAM]

                        HIGHLY INTEGRATED SEMICONDUCTORS

              Filter                Receiver              Mixed Signal
              Switch               Synthesizer                DSP
             PA Module             Transmitter               Audio


               Physical Interface      Network Access          MMI/
                  DSP Firmware            Software         Applications

                            COMPLETE SYSTEM SOFTWARE



Skyworks also offers a broad product portfolio addressing next generation
wireless infrastructure applications, including amplifier drivers, ceramic
resonators, couplers and detectors, filters, synthesizers and front-end
receivers. These components support a variety of radio frequency and mixed
signal processing functions within the wireless infrastructure.


                                       5
<PAGE>
                                       Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and Subsidiaries


We have a comprehensive radio frequency and mixed signal processing and
packaging portfolio, extensive circuit design libraries and a proven track
record in component and system design. We believe that these capabilities
position us to address the growing need of wireless infrastructure manufacturers
for base station products with increased transceiver performance and
functionality with reduced size, power consumption and overall system costs.

OUR STRATEGY

Skyworks' vision is to become the leading supplier of wireless semiconductor
solutions. Key elements in our strategy include:

LEVERAGING CORE TECHNOLOGIES

Skyworks deploys technology building blocks such as radio frequency integrated
circuits, analog/mixed-signal processing cores and digital baseband engines as
well as software across multiple product platforms. We believe that this
approach enables creation of economies of scale in research and development and
facilitates a reduction in the time-to-market for key products.

INCREASING INTEGRATION LEVELS

High levels of integration enhance the benefits of our products by reducing
production costs through fewer external components, reduced board space and
improved system assembly yields. By combining all of the necessary
communications functions for a complete system solution, Skyworks can deliver
additional semiconductor content, thereby offering existing and potential
customers more compelling and cost-effective solutions.

CAPTURING AN INCREASING AMOUNT OF SEMICONDUCTOR CONTENT

We enable our customers to start with individual components as necessary, and
then migrate up the product integration ladder. We believe that our highly
integrated solutions will enable these customers to speed time-to-market while
focusing their resources on product differentiation through a broader range of
more sophisticated, next-generation features.

DIVERSIFYING CUSTOMER BASE

Skyworks supports virtually every wireless handset OEM including Motorola, Inc.,
Nokia Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co. and Sony/Ericsson as well as emerging
original development manufacturers (ODMs) and contract manufacturers such as
BenQ, Compal, Flextronics and Quanta. With the industry's move towards
outsourcing, we believe that we are particularly well-positioned to address the
growing needs of new market entrants who seek RF and system-level integration
expertise.

DELIVERING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE

The Skyworks operations team leverages best-in-class manufacturing technologies
and enables highly integrated modules as well as system-level solutions. We are
focused on achieving the industry's shortest cycle times, highest yields and
ultimately the lowest cost structure.

BUILDING INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIPS

Skyworks will vertically integrate where it can differentiate or will otherwise
enter alliances and partnerships for leading-edge capabilities. These
partnerships and alliances are designed to ensure product leadership and
competitive advantage in the marketplace. For example, we recently licensed LSI
Logic's digital signal processor core to support future GSM/GPRS baseband
products. Additionally, we work with Advanced Wireless Semiconductor Company
(AWSC), Jazz Semiconductor, Inc. and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC)
on a foundry basis.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

Our products are primarily sold through a direct Skyworks sales force. This team
is globally deployed across all major regions. In some markets we supplement our
direct sales effort with independent manufacturers' representatives, assuring
broader coverage of territories and customers. We also utilize distribution
partners, some of which are franchised globally with others specific to North
American markets.

We maintain an internal marketing organization that is responsible for
developing sales and advertising literature, print media such as product
announcements and catalogs, as well as a variety of web based content. Skyworks'
sales engagement begins at the earliest stages in a customer design. We strive
to provide close technical collaboration with our customers at the inception of
a new program. This partnership allows our team to facilitate customer-driven
solutions, which leverage the unique strength of our portfolio while providing
high value and greatly reduced time-to-market.


                                       6
<PAGE>
                                       Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and Subsidiaries


We believe that the technical and complex nature of our products and markets
demands an extraordinary commitment to close ongoing relationships with our
customers. As such, we strive to expand the scope of our customer relationship
to include design, engineering, manufacturing, purchasing and project management
staff. We also employ a collaborative approach in developing these partnerships
by combining the support of our design teams, applications engineers,
manufacturing personnel, sales and marketing staff and senior management.

We believe that maintaining frequent and interactive contact with our customers
is paramount to our continuous efforts to provide world-class sales and service
support. By listening and responding to feedback, we are able to mobilize
actions to raise the level of customer satisfaction, improve our ability to
anticipate future product needs, and enhance our understanding of key market
dynamics. We are confident that diligence in following this path will position
Skyworks to participate in numerous opportunities for growth in the future.

CUSTOMERS

During fiscal year 2002, Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola, Inc. accounted
for 38% and 12%, respectively, of the Company's total net revenues from
customers other than Conexant. During fiscal year 2001, Samsung Electronics Co.
and Nokia Corporation accounted for 44% and 12%, respectively, of the Company's
total net revenues from customers other than Conexant. As of September 30, 2002
Samsung Electronics Co. accounted for approximately 27% of the Company's gross
accounts receivable. The foregoing percentages are based on sales representing
the Mexicali Operations' and the wireless business of Conexant's sales for the
full fiscal year during 2001 and the fiscal 2002 pre-Merger period through June
25, 2002, and sales of Skyworks, the combined company, for the post-Merger
period from June 26, 2002 through the end of the fiscal year.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

We own or license numerous United States and foreign patents and patent
applications related to our products, our manufacturing operations and processes
and other activities. In addition, we own a number of trademarks and service
marks applicable to certain of our products and services. We believe that
intellectual property, including patents, patent applications and licenses,
trade secrets and trademarks are of material importance to our business. We rely
on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property
laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods,
to protect our proprietary technologies, devices, algorithms and processes. In
addition to protecting our proprietary technologies and processes, we strive to
strengthen our intellectual property portfolio to enhance our ability to obtain
cross-licenses of intellectual property from others, to obtain access to
intellectual property we do not possess and to more favorably resolve potential
intellectual property claims against us. We believe that our technological
position depends primarily on our ability to develop new innovative products
through the technical competence of our engineering personnel.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We compete on the basis of time-to-market; new product innovation: overall
product quality and performance; price; compliance with industry standards;
strategic relationships with customers: and protection of our intellectual
property. Certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to
new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may be
able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their
products than we can.

Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish
financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our customers,
resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect our customers'
purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or
alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market
share. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to compete successfully
against current and potential competitors.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our products and markets are subject to continued technological advances.
Recognizing the importance of such technological advances, we maintain a high
level of research and development activities. We maintain close collaborative
relationships with many of our customers to help identify market demands and
target our development efforts to meet those demands. Our design centers are
strategically located around the world to be in close proximity to our customers
and to take advantage of key technical and engineering talent worldwide. We are
focusing our development efforts on new products, design tools and manufacturing
processes using our core technologies.

Our research and development expenditures for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 were
$132.6 million, $111.1 million and $91.6 million, respectively.


                                       7
<PAGE>
                                       Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and Subsidiaries


RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally
available from several sources. It is our policy not to depend on a sole source
of supply. However, there are limited situations where we procure certain
components and services for our products from single or limited sources. We
purchase materials and services against long-term agreements or on individual
purchase orders. We do not carry significant inventories and do not have any
additional long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. We believe we have
adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our
manufacturing needs with suppliers located around the world. Raw wafers and
other raw materials used in the production of our CMOS products are available
from several suppliers.

Under a supply agreement entered into with Conexant in connection with the
Merger, we will receive wafer fabrication, wafer probe and certain other
services from Jazz Semiconductor, Inc., a Newport Beach, California foundry
joint venture between Conexant and The Carlyle Group. Pursuant to our supply
agreement with Conexant, we are initially obligated to obtain certain minimum
volume levels from Jazz Semiconductor based on a contractual agreement between
Conexant and Jazz Semiconductor. Our expected minimum purchase obligations under
this supply agreement are anticipated to be approximately $64 million, $39
million and $13 million in fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005. We estimate that our
minimum purchase obligation under this agreement will result in excess costs of
approximately $5.1 million and we have recorded this liability and charged cost
of sales in fiscal 2002.

BACKLOG

Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery
of products, with such purchase orders officially acknowledged by us according
to our own terms and conditions. Due to industry practice, which allows
customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice to us prior to shipment,
we believe that backlog as of any particular date is not a reliable indicator of
our future revenue levels.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances
into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other activities
affecting the environment have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our
manufacturing operations. Thus far, compliance with environmental requirements
and resolution of environmental claims have been accomplished without material
effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial
condition.

We believe that our expenditures for environmental capital investment and
remediation necessary to comply with present regulations governing environmental
protection and other expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims
will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources,
competitive position or financial condition. We cannot assess the possible
effect of compliance with future requirements.

CYCLICALITY; SEASONALITY

The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant
and rapid technological change. Product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving
technical standards, and shortened product life cycles may contribute to wide
fluctuations in product supply and demand. These and other factors, together
with changes in general economic conditions, may cause significant upturns and
downturns in the industry, and in our business. Periods of industry downturns --
as we experienced in fiscal 2001 -- have been characterized by diminished
product demand, production overcapacity, excess inventory levels and accelerated
erosion of average selling prices. These factors may cause substantial
fluctuations in our revenues and our operational performance. We have
experienced these cyclical fluctuations in our business in the past and may
experience cyclical fluctuations in the future.

Sales of our products are subject to seasonal fluctuation and periods of
increased demand in end-user consumer applications, such as mobile handsets.
This generally occurs in the last calendar quarter ending in December. Sales of
semiconductor products and system solutions used in these products generally
increase just prior to this quarter and continue at a higher level through the
end of the calendar year.


                                       8
<PAGE>
                                       Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and Subsidiaries


GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

Net revenues from customers other than Conexant by geographic area are presented
based upon the country of destination. Net revenues from customers other than
Conexant by geographic area are as follows (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,
                                            ------------------------------------
                                              2002          2001          2000
                                            --------      --------      --------
<S>                                         <C>           <C>           <C>
   United States .....................      $ 32,760      $ 18,999      $ 32,726
   Other Americas ....................         4,615         5,455         8,146
                                            --------      --------      --------
           Total Americas ............        37,375        24,454        40,872

  South Korea ........................       237,681       142,459       167,269
  Other Asia-Pacific .................       114,974        23,898        46,255
                                            --------      --------      --------
           Total Asia-Pacific ........       352,655       166,357       213,524

  Europe, Middle East and Africa .....        28,314        24,691        58,587
                                            --------      --------      --------
                                            $418,344      $215,502      $312,983
                                            ========      ========      ========
</TABLE>

Although we sell the vast majority of our products into the Asia-Pacific region,
end products that our customers develop may ultimately be shipped worldwide. For
example, if we sell a power amplifier module to a customer in South Korea, we
record the sale within the South Korea account although that customer, in turn,
may integrate that module into a product sold to a service provider (its
customer) in Africa, China, Europe, the Middle East, the Americas or within
South Korea. Accordingly, our revenues by geography do not correlate to end
handset demand by region.

Long-lived assets principally consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill
and intangible assets. Long-lived assets by geographic area are as follows (in
thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          SEPTEMBER 30,
                                                --------------------------------
                                                   2002                  2001
                                                ----------            ----------
<S>                                             <C>                   <C>
Assets
  United States ....................            $1,063,163            $   44,539
  Mexico ...........................                52,730               126,730
  Canada ...........................                   387                58,373
  Other ............................                 3,236                 1,285
                                                ----------            ----------
                                                $1,119,516            $  230,927
                                                ==========            ==========
</TABLE>

EMPLOYEES

As of September 27, 2002, the Company employed approximately 4,000 persons.
Approximately 1,100 employees in Mexico are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Management believes that its current relations with employees are
good.

We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our continued
ability to attract, motivate, develop and retain highly skilled and dedicated
employees.
