ITEM 1    BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

Alpha Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation, manufactures and markets
proprietary radio frequency and microwave integrated circuit products and
solutions primarily for wireless communications. Our products include modules,
integrated circuits and discrete components, as well as components based on
electrical ceramic and ferrite technology. The primary applications for our
products are wireless handsets and wireless base station equipment, together
with wireless local area network, wide area network and local loop applications.

PRODUCTS AND APPLICATIONS

We offer a broad array of products, including gallium arsenide semiconductor
integrated circuit switches, controls and power amplifiers, silicon discrete
semiconductors, ceramic-based components and multi-chip modules. A typical
wireless handset contains radio frequency and baseband components. We are
focused on providing radio frequency components that convert, switch, process
and amplify the high frequency signals that carry the information to be
transmitted or received. See Note 10 of Item 7 of this Form 10-K for tabular
disclosure of selected financial data by business segment.

POWER AMPLIFIERS. Wireless communications systems require amplification to
transmit and receive signals. The power amplifier gives the radio signal the
energy to travel farther. The power efficiency of gallium arsenide semiconductor
based power amplifiers offer superior performance to silicon solutions. We have
been an innovator of gallium arsenide semiconductor based power amplifier
products. We were the first merchant semiconductor company to offer a
three-volt, high-efficiency power amplifier integrated circuit based on
pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistor process, or PHEMT, for the GSM
wireless standard operating at three different frequencies. We were also the
first merchant semiconductor company to deliver a three-volt metal semiconductor
field effect transistor, or MESFET, gallium arsenide semiconductor based power
amplifier integrated circuit. Our power amplifier business is supported by our
experience with gallium arsenide heterojunction bipolar transistor, or HBT,
gallium arsenide PHEMT and gallium arsenide MESFET semiconductor processes.

INTEGRATED CIRCUIT SWITCHES AND CONTROLS. Switching and control functions route
and adjust signal levels between the receiver and transmitter and other
processing devices. The number of switching functions increases with the design
complexity of the handset. Our gallium arsenide integrated circuit switches are
used in handsets to provide lower signal loss and better signal isolation than
comparable products. Our high-efficiency gallium arsenide switch integrated
circuits integrate logic elements, making the circuits easier for our customers
to use.

DISCRETE SEMICONDUCTORS. Discrete semiconductors, especially diodes, are used
for signal tuning and switching functions in the handset. We draw on our
microwave frequency and millimeter wave frequency experience to produce diodes
with enhanced circuit performance. We manufacture these products in high volumes
for several handset manufacturers.

MULTI-CHIP MODULES. Multi-chip modules combine semiconductor devices, such as
integrated circuits and discrete semiconductors, in a single module-based
platform. The result is an easy-to-manufacture solution that enables wireless
manufacturers to reduce design complexity and dramatically shorten their product
development cycle.


                                       2
<PAGE>
                                         ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CERAMIC PRODUCTS. Our ceramic products play a critical role in processing
communications signals. Ceramic materials allow improved power efficiency and
miniaturization in wireless communications infrastructure.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

We sell our products through independent manufacturers' representatives and
distribution partners and through a direct sales staff. We also distribute our
products through a global organization that is franchised throughout portions of
the world, and through two organizations that focus primarily on the North
American market. We maintain an internal marketing organization that is
responsible for developing sales and advertising literature, such as product
announcements, catalogs, brochures and magazine articles in trade and other
publications.

We believe that the technical and complex nature of our products and markets
demands an extraordinary commitment to close ongoing relationships with our
customers. We strive to maintain close contact with our customers' design,
engineering, manufacturing, purchasing and project management personnel. We
employ a team approach in developing close relationships by combining the
support of design and applications engineers, manufacturing personnel, sales and
marketing staff and senior management. We believe that maintaining close contact
with our customers improves their level of satisfaction, assists us in
anticipating their future product needs and enhances our opportunities for
design wins.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our products and markets are subject to continued technological advances.
Recognizing this, we maintain a high level of research and development
activities to remain competitive in certain areas and to be an industry leader
in other areas. We maintain close collaborative relationships with many of our
customers to help identify market demands and target our development efforts to
meet those demands. We are focusing our development efforts on new products,
design tools and manufacturing processes in our semiconductor products segment
using our core technologies.

Our R&D expenditures for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 were $41.6 million, $36.0
million and $25.3 million, respectively.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally
available from several sources. It is our policy not to depend on a sole source
of supply. However, there are limited situations where we procure certain
components and services for our products from single or limited sources. We
purchase these materials and services on a purchase order basis. We do not carry
significant inventories and have long-term supply contracts with only a limited
number of our vendors.

WORKING CAPITAL

Our business is not seasonal, and there are no special practices with respect to
working capital for us or the industry in general. We provide a limited warranty
on our products against defects in material and workmanship. Payment terms are
generally 30 days in the domestic market and 60 days in foreign markets.

CUSTOMERS

During fiscal year 2002, one customer accounted for 31% of the Company's total
net sales. During fiscal year 2001, two customers accounted for 26% and 11%,
respectively of the Company's total sales. In fiscal 2000, one customer
accounted for 34% of the Company's total net sales. In fiscal 2002, net sales to
the Company's 15 largest customers accounted for 67% of total net sales. In
fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000, net


                                       3
<PAGE>
ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

sales to the Company's 15 largest customers accounted for 69% and 65%,
respectively, of total net sales. As of March 31, 2002 and April 1, 2001, one
customer accounted for approximately 25% and 16%, respectively, of the Company's
gross accounts receivable.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We compete on the basis of price, performance, quality, reliability, size,
ability to meet delivery requirements and customer service and support. However,
we experience intense competition worldwide from a number of multinational
companies that offer a variety of competitive products and broader product
lines, and which have substantially greater financial resources and production,
marketing, manufacturing, engineering and other capabilities than we do. We also
face competition from a number of smaller companies. In addition, our customers,
particularly our largest customers, may have or could acquire the capability to
develop or manufacture products competitive with those that have been or may be
developed or manufactured by us. See Note 10 of Item 7 of this Form 10-K for
tabular disclosure of selected financial data by business segment.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own certain patents and have other patent applications under preparation or
pending. However, we believe that our technological position depends primarily
on our ability to develop new innovative products through the technical
competence of our engineering personnel.

BACKLOG

Our policy is to book only the next three months of commercial orders consistent
with customer short-term requirements. Many commercial orders cover
substantially more than three months of performance, but such orders can be
easily modified or canceled by the customer and we believe it is a better
practice to limit bookings in this manner. On this basis, we believe all orders
in our backlog to be firm. However, current market conditions make predictions
about future operations particularly difficult. While we believe all orders in
our backlog to be firm, our operating results have been materially and adversely
affected in the past by deferral and cancellation of orders as a result of
changes in customer requirements.

We have backlog of undelivered orders on March 31, 2002 of approximately $20.6
million compared with $38.7 million on April 1, 2001.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

In our opinion, compliance with federal, state, and local environmental
protection regulations does not and will not have a material effect on our
capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position.

EMPLOYEES

As of March 31, 2002, we employed approximately 935 persons, compared with 1,120
persons as of April 1, 2001.
