ITEM  1.     BUSINESS

Items  1  and  3  of this 10-K contain forward-looking statements concerning our
development  efforts,  strategy,  new  product  introductions,  backlog  and
litigation.  These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including
those  discussed  throughout  this  document as well as under "Factors Affecting
Future  Operating  Results"  in  Item  7.

GENERAL

Xilinx,  Inc.  (Xilinx  or  the  Company) designs, develops and markets complete
programmable  logic  solutions,  including  advanced  integrated circuits (ICs),
software  design  tools, predefined system functions delivered as cores of logic
and  field  engineering  support.  Our programmable logic devices (PLDs) include
field  programmable  gate  arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices
(CPLDs).  These  devices  are  standard  products  that our customers program to
perform  desired  logic  functions.  Our  products  are designed to provide high
integration  and  quick  time-to-market  for  electronic equipment manufacturers
primarily  in  the  telecommunications,  networking,  computing,  industrial and
consumer  markets.  Our  products  are  sold  globally  through  a  network  of
independent  sales  representatives,  distributors,  and  to  original equipment
manufacturers  ("OEMs").

Competitive  pressures  compel manufacturers of electronic systems to accelerate
their  products'  introduction  to  market.  Customer  requirements for improved
functionality, performance, reliability and lower cost are addressed through the
use  of  components  that  integrate  ever  larger numbers of logic gates onto a
single  integrated  circuit.  Such  integration  often results in greater speed,
smaller  die  size,  lower  power  consumption  and  reduced  costs.  The  rapid
proliferation  of  the Internet and wireless communication networks continues to
fuel  the  demand  for  more  complex  integrated  circuits.  At  the same time,
tremendous  pressure  is  placed  on electronic equipment manufacturers' product
life  cycles.  Due  to their inherent complexity and reprogrammability, our PLDs
enable  electronic  equipment  manufacturers  to  effectively  respond  to these
evolving  market  trends.

We  were  organized  in  California  in  February 1984 and in November 1985 were
reorganized to incorporate our research and development limited partnership.  In
April  1990,  we  reincorporated  in  Delaware.  Our  corporate  facilities  and
executive  offices  are  located at 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, California 95124
and  our  website  is  www.xilinx.com.

Our  fiscal  year  ends  on  the  Saturday  nearest  March  31.  For  ease  of
presentation,  March  31  has  been  utilized  as  the  fiscal  year-end for all
financial  statement  captions.  Fiscal 2000 ended on April 1, 2000 while fiscal
1999  and  1998  ended  on  April  3,  1999  and  March  28, 1998, respectively.

PRODUCTS

Integral to the future success of our business is the timely introduction of new
products  which  address  customer  requirements  and compete effectively on the
basis  of  price,  functionality,  and  performance.  Delays  in  developing new
products  with anticipated technological advances or delays in commencing volume
shipments  of  new  products  could  have  an  adverse  effect  on our financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.  In addition, there can be no assurance
that  such  products,  if  introduced,  will  gain  market acceptance or respond
effectively  to  new  technological  changes  or  product introductions by other
companies.

     Programmable  Logic  Devices

We  currently  classify  our  product  offerings  into  four  categories  by
manufacturing  process  technology.  Base products consist of our mature product
families  that  are currently manufactured on technologies of 0.6-micron process
and  older.  Base  products  include  the  XC3000,  XC3100, and XC4000 families.
Mainstream  products  are  currently  manufactured  on  0.35  and  0.5-micron
technologies  and  include  the  XC4000E,  XC4000EX,  XC4000XL,  XC5200, XC9500,
XC9500XL, Spartan(TM) and CoolRunner(R) product lines. Advanced products include
Our newest technologies manufactured on 0.25-micron and smaller processes, which
include the XC4000XV, XC4000XLA, Spartan XL, Spartan-II, Virtex(TM), and
Virtex-E product  lines.   Support  products  comprise  the  fourth product
category, and include  serial  proms,  HardWire  devices,  and  software.

     Virtex  FPGAs:

The  Virtex  FPGA  series,  announced  in  October 1998, is the industry's first
million-gate FPGA.  Nine Virtex devices are currently in production.  The Virtex
devices  are  found  in  traditional  programmable  logic  applications  such as
networking  or  telecommunications,  and  in  applications  like  storage  area
networks, routers, high end servers, switching equipment, cellular base stations
and  High Definition Television (HDTV) infrastructure.  The Virtex devices range
from  50,000  to  1,000,000-  system  gate  densities  with 200 MHz chip-to-chip
performance  and  offer system-level integration capabilities. The Virtex family
delivers  the  first fully programmable alternative to high density system-level
Application  Specific  Integrated  Circuits  (ASIC)  design.

The  Virtex-E FPGA family includes a two million system gate device and supports
twice  the  system-gate  density  and 50 percent higher I/O performance than the
original  Virtex  FPGAs.  Four  family  members  are  currently  in  production,
including  the  new  XCV2000E  device  which began shipping in the third quarter
fiscal  year  2000.  The Virtex-E family will consist of 11 members, from 50,000
system gates to 3.2 million system gates. The new Virtex-E FPGAs, delivering new
performance  and  density attributes that were only previously addressed by ASIC
solutions,  are  targeted  for  next generation networking and telecommunication
applications.

Virtex-E FPGAs are the first programmable logic devices delivered on 0.18-micron
process  technology,  which  was  developed  by Taiwan's United Microelectronics
Corporation  (UMC)  with  our  assistance.  The  improved  process  directly
contributes  to  a  substantial  performance  gain.  The  Virtex-E  family  also
represents the industry's first programmable logic architecture with 210 million
transistors  on  a  single  device.

     XC4000  FPGAs:

The  XC4000XL  family  has 11 members shipping in volume ranging in density from
2,000  to  180,000  system  gates.  The XC4000XLA family expands on the XC4000XL
architecture  with  reduced power consumption and improved performance making it
the  industry's  highest performance 3.3-volt FPGA family.  The XC4000XLA family
has  eight  members  shipping  in  volume  and  ranges in density from 30,000 to
180,000  system  gates.  The  XC4000XV  is  a 2.5-volt FPGA family that utilizes
0.25-micron  technology.  The  family has four members with up to 500,000 system
gates.

     Spartan  FPGAs:

The  Xilinx  Spartan  and  SpartanXL  FPGA  families are derived from the XC4000
architecture.  These  families  feature low-cost ASIC replacement with densities
ranging  from  5,000  to 40,000 system gates.  In January 2000, we announced the
Spartan-II  family,  our  newest  generation  of  high-volume FPGAs.  Spartan-II
devices  are  designed  to  be  low cost programmable replacements for ASICs and
application  specific standard products (ASSPs).  New features in the Spartan-II
family address a larger range of high-volume applications and open up new market
opportunities  for  programmable  logic.

     CPLDs:

The  XC9500XL  family  offers  in-system  programmability  for both 3.3-volt and
5.0-volt  systems.  The  XC9500XV  is  the industry's first 2.5-volt CPLD family
with  significantly  reduced  power  consumption.

In  August  1999  we  acquired Philips Semiconductors' line of low-power complex
programmable  logic devices (CPLDs) called the CoolRunner family of devices.  We
also  purchased Philips Semiconductors' XPLA Professional suite of design tools.
The  CoolRunner  line  is  the first family of CPLD products to combine very low
power  with  high  speed,  high density, and high I/O counts in a single device.
CoolRunner  CPLDs  also  use  far  less  dynamic  power  during actual operation
compared  to  conventional  CPLDs,  an  important  feature  for  today's  mobile
computing  applications.

     Software,  Cores  &  Support

We  offer  complete  software  design  tool  solutions which enable customers to
implement  their  design  specifications  into  our PLDs.  These software design
tools  combine  powerful  technology  with  a  flexible,  easy  to use graphical
interface  to  help  achieve  the  best  possible designs within each customer's
project  schedule,  regardless  of  the  designer's  experience  level.

We  offer  two  complementary software design tool solutions.  Xilinx Foundation
Series software provides designers with a complete, ready-to-use design solution
based  on industry-standard hardware description languages (HDLs) and is easy to
learn and use.  For those customers new to designing with PLDs or desiring a low
cost  approach,  we offer this fully integrated software solution.  The Alliance
Series  is  tailored  for  designers  who  want maximum flexibility to integrate
programmable  logic  design into their existing EDA environment and methodology.
With interfaces to over fifty EDA vendors, Alliance Series Software allows users
to  select  tools  with  which  they are most familiar, thereby increasing their
productivity  and  shortening  their  end  products'  design  cycle.

addition, we offer CPLD WebPACK(TM) solutions, which are a collection of free
downloadable  software  modules.  Customers can register and download any of the
WebPACK(TM) modules to complete Xilinx XC9500 or CoolRunner Series CPLD designs.

We  also  offer  intellectual  property cores of logic for commonly used complex
functions  such  as  digital signal processing (DSP), bus interfaces, processors
and  peripheral  interfaces.  Using logic cores, available from Xilinx and third
party  AllianceCORE  partners,  customers  can  shorten development time, reduce
design  risk  and  obtain superior performance for their designs.  Additionally,
our  CORE  Generator  system allows customers to implement intellectual property
cores  into our PLDs.  It offers a simple user interface, complete cataloging of
available  cores,  easy  selection  of  parameter-based  cores optimized for our
FPGAs,  and  features an interface to third-party system level DSP design tools.
The  CORE  Generator  is  shipped  with  our  software  design tools and is also
available  via  our  web  site.

Our  software  design  tools  operate  on  desktop computer platforms, including
personal computers with Microsoft Windows '95, '98 and NT operating systems, and
workstations  from  IBM,  HP and  Sun  Microsystems.

RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Our  research  and  development  activities  are  primarily directed towards the
design  of new integrated circuits, the development of new software design tools
and  cores  of  logic,  the  development of advanced semiconductor manufacturing
processes,  as  well  as ongoing cost reductions and performance improvements in
existing  products.  Our  primary  areas  of  focus  have been: to introduce the
industry's  first  programmable  system integration solution (Virtex devices), a
low-cost  ASIC  replacement  FPGA  solution  (Spartan  devices),  to  extend the
performance  and  density  range  of  the  industry's  most  popular FPGA series
(XC4000XLA/XV  families),  to  increase segment share in the CPLD market segment
(XC9500XL/XV & CoolRunner families), and release new versions of software design
tools  and  cores  of  logic.

Our  research  and  development challenge is to continue to develop new products
that  create  cost-effective solutions for customers.  In fiscal 2000, 1999, and
1998,  our research and development expenses were $123.6 million, $90.9 million,
and $80.5 million, respectively.  We expect we will continue to make substantial
investments  in  research  and  development.  We believe technical leadership is
essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant
level  of  research  and  development effort. However, there can be no assurance
that  any  of our research and development efforts will be successful, timely or
cost-effective.

MARKETING  AND  SALES

We  sell  our  products through several industrial distributors: direct sales to
manufacturers  by  independent  sales  representative  firms,  sales  through
franchised  domestic  distributors,  and sales through foreign distributors.  In
order to provide service to existing customers and reach potential customers, we
also  utilize  a  direct  sales  management  organization and field applications
engineers  (FAEs).  Our independent representatives generally address larger OEM
customers  and act as a direct sales force, while distributors serve the balance
of  our  customer  base.  Our  sales  and customer support personnel support all
channels  and  consult with customers about their plans, ensuring that the right
software  and  devices  are  selected  at the beginning of a customer's project.

Avnet,  Inc.,  and  VEBA  distribute  our  products  worldwide,  and Nu Horizons
Electronics  provides additional regional sales coverage.  From time to time, we
may  add  or  terminate  distributors  from  our selling organization as we deem
appropriate  given  the  level  of  business.  We believe distributors provide a
cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers.  Since our PLDs are
standard  products,  they  do  not  present  many  of  the  inventory  risks  to
distributors  as  compared  to  custom  gate  arrays,  and  they  simplify  the
requirements  for  distributor  technical  support.

We  changed  our accounting method during fiscal 1999 for recognizing revenue on
all  shipments  to  international  distributors.  While  we  previously deferred
revenue  on shipments to domestic distributors until the product was sold to the
end user, we recognized revenue upon shipment to international distributors, net
of  estimated  reserves  for  returns  and allowances.  Following the accounting
change,  revenue  recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred
until  the  products  are  sold  to the end customer.  Distributors have certain
rights  of  return  and  price protection privileges on unsold product until the
product  is  sold.

BACKLOG  AND  CUSTOMERS

As  of  March  31,  2000,  our backlog of purchase orders scheduled for delivery
within the next three months was $174.3 million, after adjustments for estimated
discounts.  Backlog  as  of March 31, 1999 was $122.0 million, after adjustments
for  estimated  discounts.  Backlog  amounts  for  both  years include orders to
distributors,  which  may  receive price adjustments upon sale to end customers.
Also, orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery
schedule  or  to cancellation at the option of the purchaser without significant
penalty.  Accordingly,  although useful for scheduling production, backlog as of
any  particular  date  may  not be a reliable measure of revenues for any future
period.

No  end  customer  accounted for more than 10% of revenues in fiscal years 2000,
1999,  or  1998.  (See  Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item  8  for  geographic  sales  information.)

WAFER  FABRICATION

We do not directly manufacture processed wafers used for our products.  Over the
last  several  years, the majority of our wafer purchases have been manufactured
by  United  Microelectronics  Corporation,  (UMC),  UMC  affiliated  companies
including  our  former joint venture, USIC, Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko), and
Taiwan  Semiconductor Manufacture Company (TSMC).  Precise terms with respect to
the  volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by
the  semiconductor  foundries  are  determined  by periodic negotiations between
Xilinx  and  these  wafer  foundry  partners.

Our  strategy  is to focus our resources on creating new integrated circuits and
software  design  tools  and  on  market  development  rather  than  on  wafer
fabrication.  We  continuously  evaluate  opportunities  to  enhance  foundry
relationships  and/or obtain additional capacity from both our main suppliers as
well  as  other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies.  As a result, we
have  entered  into  agreements  with  UMC  and  Seiko  as  discussed  below.

Xilinx, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and other parties entered into
a  joint  venture  to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as
United  Silicon  Inc.  (USIC).  (See  Note  4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8.)  We made a total cumulative investment of  $107.1 million
in  USIC. In January 2000, our equity position in USIC was converted into shares
of  UMC  which  are  publicly  traded  on  the Taiwan Stock Exchange.  We retain
monthly  guaranteed  wafer  capacity  rights  in  UMC  as  long  as  we retain a
percentage  of  our  UMC shares.  (See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  in  Item  8.)

In  fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with Seiko.  (See Note 2
of  Notes  to  Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.)  This agreement was
amended  in fiscal 1998 and provided for an advance to Seiko for $150.0 million.
In  conjunction with the agreement, $60.0 million was paid in fiscal 1997 and an
additional  $90.0 million was paid in fiscal 1998.  Repayment of this advance is
made  in  the form of wafer deliveries, which began during the fourth quarter of
fiscal  1998.  Specific  wafer  pricing is in U.S. dollars and is based upon the
prices  of  similar  wafers  manufactured  by  other,  specifically  identified,
leading-edge  foundry  suppliers.

SORT,  ASSEMBLY  AND  TEST

Wafers  purchased  by  us  are  sorted  by  the  wafer foundry, independent sort
subcontractors  or  by  us.  Sorted  wafers  are  assembled by subcontractors in
facilities  in  Pacific  Rim countries.  During the assembly process, the wafers
are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package
types.  Following  assembly,  the  packaged units are tested by independent test
subcontractors  or  by  Xilinx  personnel  at  our  San  Jose or Dublin, Ireland
facilities.

PATENTS  AND  LICENSES

Through  March  31,  2000,  we held over 400 issued United States patents and we
maintain  an  active  program  of  filing for additional patents in the areas of
software,  IC  architecture  and  design.  We  intend  to vigorously protect our
intellectual  property.  We  believe  that  failure to enforce our patents or to
effectively  protect  our  trade  secrets  could  have  an adverse effect on our
financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.  In the future, we may incur
litigation  expenses  to  enforce our intellectual property rights against third
parties.  There  is  no  assurance that any such litigation would be successful.
(See  Legal Proceedings in Item 3 and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  in  Item  8.)

We  have  acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant object code
sublicenses  to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed
with  our software design tools.  In addition, we have licensed certain software
for  internal  use  in  product  design.

EMPLOYEES

Xilinx's  employee  population  grew  30% during the past year.  As of March 31,
2000, Xilinx had 1,939 employees compared to 1,491 at the end of the prior year.
None of our employees are represented by a labor union.  We have not experienced
any  work  stoppages  and  believe  we  maintain  good  employee  relations.

COMPETITION

Our  PLDs compete in the logic industry.  The industries in which we compete are
intensely  competitive  and  are  characterized  by  rapid technological change,
product  obsolescence  and  continuous  price  erosion.  We  expect  increased
competition,  both from our primary competitors, Altera Corporation, and Lattice
Semiconductor  Corporation and from a number of new companies that may enter our
market.  We believe that important competitive factors in the programmable logic
industry  include:

  -     product  pricing;
  -     product  performance,  reliability  and  density;
  -     the  adaptability  of  products  to  specific  applications;
  -     ease  of  use  and  functionality  of  software  design  tools;
  -     functionality  of  predefined  cores  of  logic;  and
  -     the  ability  to  provide  timely  customer  service  and  support.

Our  strategy  for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction
of new product architectures which address high volume, low cost applications as
well  as  high  performance, leading-edge density applications.  In addition, we
anticipate  continued  price  reductions proportionate with our ability to lower
the manufacturing cost for established products.  However, we cannot assure that
we  will  be  successful  in  achieving  these  strategies.

Our  major  sources  of  competition  are  comprised  of  several  elements:

  -     providers of high  density  programmable logic products characterized by
        FPGA-type  architectures;
  -     providers of high  volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacement
        for  ASICs  and  application  specific  standard  products  (ASSPs).;
  -     providers  of  high  speed,  low  density  CPLD  devices;
  -     the  manufacturers  of  custom  gate  arrays;
  -     providers  of  competitive  software  development  tools;
  -     other  providers  of  new  or  emerging  programmable  logic  products.

We compete with high density programmable logic suppliers on the basis of device
performance,  the  ability  to  deliver  complete solutions to customers, device
power  consumption  and  customer  support  by  taking  advantage of the primary
characteristics  of  our  PLD product offerings which include: flexibility, high
speed  implementation,  quick  time-to-market  and system level capabilities. We
compete  with  ASIC  manufacturers  on  the basis of lower design costs, shorter
development  schedules, reduced inventory risk and field upgradability. The ASIC
market  segment  has been declining, and ASICs are being replaced by other logic
options.  The  primary  attributes of ASICs are high density, high speed and low
production  costs  in  high  volumes.  We  continue  to  develop  lower  cost
architectures  intended  to narrow the gap between current ASIC production costs
(in  high  volumes) and PLD production costs.  As PLDs have increased in density
and  performance  and  decreased  in  cost  due  to  the  advanced manufacturing
processes,  they  have  become  more  directly competitive with ASICs.  With the
introduction  of  our  Spartan  family,  which is Xilinx's low cost programmable
replacement  for  ASICs,  we  seek  to  grow  by  directly  competing with other
companies  in  the ASIC segment.  Many of the companies in the ASIC segment have
substantially  greater financial, technical and marketing resources than Xilinx.
Consequently,  there can be no assurance that we will be successful in competing
in the ASIC segment. Competition among PLD suppliers and manufacturers of new or
emerging  programmable  logic products is based primarily on price, performance,
design,  customer  support, software utility and the ability to deliver complete
solutions  to  customers.  Some  of  our  current  or potential competitors have
substantially  greater  financial,  manufacturing,  marketing,  distribution and
technical  resources  than we do.  To the extent that our efforts to compete are
not  successful,  our  financial  condition  and  results of operations could be
materially  adversely  affected.

The  benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of companies to this
market.  We recognize that different applications require different programmable
technologies,  and  we  are  developing architectures, processes and products to
meet  these  varying  customer  needs.  Recognizing the increasing importance of
standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that
support  the  full  range  of  integrated  circuit  products.  We  believe  that
automation  and  ease  of  design are significant competitive factors in the PLD
segment.

Several  companies,  both large and small, have introduced products that compete
with  ours  or have announced their intention to enter the PLD segment.  Some of
our competitors may possess innovative technology, which could prove superior to
our  technology  in  certain applications.  In addition, we anticipate potential
competition from suppliers of logic products based on new technologies.  Some of
our  current  or  potential  competitors  have  substantially greater financial,
manufacturing,  marketing  and  technical resources than we do.  This additional
competition  could  adversely  affect  our  financial  condition  and results of
operations.

We  could  also  face  competition from our licensees.  Under a license from us,
Lucent  Technologies  has  rights  to  manufacture  and  market  our XC3000 FPGA
products and also employ that technology to provide additional high density FPGA
products.  Seiko Epson has rights to manufacture some of our products and market
them  in Japan and Europe, but is not currently doing so.   We granted a license
to  use  certain  of  our patents to Advanced Micro Devices (AMD).  AMD produced
certain  programmable  logic devices under that license through its wholly owned
subsidiary,  Vantis.  In  June  1999,  AMD sold the Vantis subsidiary to Lattice
Semiconductor  Corporation.


EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

Certain  information  regarding each of Xilinx's executive officers is set forth
below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                  <C>  <C>                                                                      <C>
                                                                                                   Officer
Name. . . . . . . .  Age  Position                                                                 Since
Willem P. Roelandts   55  President and Chief Executive Officer                                       1996
Kris Chellam. . . .   49  Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer                  1998
Steven Haynes . . .   49  Vice President, Worldwide Sales                                             1995
Randy Ong . . . . .   50  Vice President Worldwide Operations                                         2000
Dennis Segers . . .   47  Senior Vice President and General Manager of Advanced Products Group        1995
Richard W. Sevcik .   52  Senior  Vice  President, IP, Services  and  Software                        1997
Sandeep S. Vij. . .   34  Vice President, Marketing and General Manager of General Products Group     1996
Evert A. Wolsheimer   45  Vice President, and General Manager of CPLD Group                           2000
</TABLE>

There  are  no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company.
On  the  Board  of  Directors,  Mr. Vonderschmitt, Chairman of the Board, is the
brother-in-law  of  Mr.  Sanda,  Director.

Willem  P. "Wim" Roelandts joined the Company in January 1996 as Chief Executive
Officer and a member of the Company's Board of Directors.  In April 1996, he was
appointed  to  the  additional  position  as President of the Company.  Prior to
joining  the  Company,  he  served  at  Hewlett-Packard  Company,  a  computer
manufacturer,  as  Senior Vice President and General Manager of Computer Systems
Organizations  from  August  1992 through January 1996 and as Vice President and
General  Manager  of the Network Systems Group from December 1990 through August
1992.

Kris  Chellam  joined the Company in July 1998 as Senior Vice President, Finance
and  Chief  Financial Officer.  Prior to joining the Company, he served at Atmel
Corporation as Senior Vice President and General Manager of a product group from
March  to July 1998 and as Vice President, Finance and Administration, and Chief
Financial  Officer  from  September  1991  through  March  1998.

Steven  Haynes  joined  the Company in 1987 as the Regional Sales Manager of the
Northeast region, was promoted to Area Sales Director in 1988, and was appointed
Vice President, North American Sales in 1995.  In November 1998, he was promoted
and  now  holds  the  position  of  Vice  President,  Worldwide  Sales.

Randy  Ong joined the Company in 1990 as Senior Staff Engineer, and was promoted
to  Vice  President  of  Worldwide  Operations  in  1997.  He  has  overall
responsibility  for  manufacturing,  quality assurance, testing, reliability and
package  development  for  Xilinx  programmable logic devices.  He also oversees
strategic management of the Company's semiconductor foundry partners.  He earned
his  bachelor's and master's degrees in electrical engineering at the University
of  California,  Berkeley.

Dennis  Segers  joined  the  Company  in  January  1994 as Director of Strategic
Products  and  was  promoted  to  Vice President and General Manager in November
1995.  In  April  1998,  he  was  appointed  Senior  Vice President, and General
Manager  of  Advanced  Products  Group.

Richard W. Sevcik joined the Company in April 1997 as Senior Vice President, IP,
Services  and  Software.  He  was at Hewlett-Packard Company for 10 years where,
from  1994  through  1996,  he  served as Group General Manager of the company's
Systems  Technology  Group  and  oversaw  five  divisions  involved with product
development  for  servers,  workstations,  operating  systems,  microprocessors,
networking  and  security.  In  1995  he was named Vice President.  From 1992 to
1994, he served as Group General Manager of Computer Systems and Servers and was
responsible  for  four  divisions.

Sandeep  S. Vij joined the Company in April 1996 as Director, FPGA Marketing and
was  promoted to Vice President, Marketing in October 1996.  In October 1997, he
was  appointed  to  the  additional  position  of General Manager of the General
Products  Group.  From 1990 until April 1996, he served at Altera Corporation, a
semiconductor  manufacturer,  where  he  most  recently  served  as  the Product
Marketing  Manager  of  High  Volume  FPGA.

Evert  A.  Wolsheimer  joined  the  Company  in  1991 as Vice President, Product
Technology, with responsibility for process technology, wafer foundry, assembly,
reliability  and  product  engineering.  He  was  promoted to Vice President and
General  Manager  of  the  CPLD  Group  in  1997.  He has served on the Board of
Directors  of  the  Fabless  Semiconductor  Association  (FSA)  since 1997.  Dr.
Wolsheimer received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Delft University of
Technology,  The  Netherlands.
